#notes #edns292  #design 



1. Just embedding a link, same as before; I didn't really have the time to work on a solution more nor did I feel that there was amazing feedback that really whipped me into action, so no changes. https://www.figma.com/design/bqexvMQZzyixb9Ipj5fS9e/App-Model--if-Alec-remembers-how-to-use-figma-?node-id=3-54&t=CA56Sp6VxjGvmNJm-1
2. 
For this design class, we practiced stakeholder engagement for effectively the entire semester, and this project was deeply spawned off of that. I had an incredible interview/location tour with the CEO of a small solar company, and a lengthy discussion with them helped reframe and refocus a lot of smaller interviews across more disparate stakeholders by having one incredibly deep conversation that touched on a lot of those points. One of the main things that this CEO/salesman did was educate people who knew they wanted solar for a specific reason, but weren't entirely certain of the specifics of the reason. A lot of consumers would talk to him and say that they were interested in the economic benefits of solar, or that they didn't care about the money, they just wanted to reduce fossil output, but that giving hard numbers was both one of the most powerful tools in opening a deal but was also frustrating as he felt that that information was readily accessible. Now, a salesman isn't exactly upset that their consumers are under informed and easy to hook, but as a CEO who wants to encourage the growth of their company, they were interested in selling why *their* solution was the best, not just that solar was awesome.
		   
 So, somewhat rambly story, I know, this app was spawned out of people just dipping a toe in to being interested in solar to help smooth them into the water - there are bigger fish lurking in the depths (solar salesmen) that pull people into the pits of photovoltaics, but the app was designed to help move people through the shallows and into the open water. By providing different avenues to inform users along paths they were already interested in, this app (which would probably be a website or pamphlet in actuality) helps reinforce pathways that already exist, making it easier for the primary stakeholder I had in mind while designing it (the CEO who I talked to) to finish their deals out. The other significant parties we interviewed the most were the consumers themselves, and as previously mentioned, an educated consumer is a delightful upside, so helping people learn more about something they're interested is what I saw as an incredible upside. 



Footnote:
- So sorry about my delayed work this semester, I had been working through finishing this and saw grade notifications start popping which made me wrap it up. Thank you so, so much for being such an understanding professor for what I've been going through, and I really enjoyed your class despite some of the growing pains, and I hope you both have pleasant resolutions to what you've been dealing with as well as a great summer. 