#edns292  #design 

----
 My biggest takeaways from the articles was considering empathy more as a systematic approach to dealing with the world as a whole, and less as a specific "buzzword," to quote Lim. When dealing with empathy in design, it's really common to just go "oh, empathize with your users! Use empathy in your designs!" and so on and so forth - but actually being a good designer who uses empathy involves implementing empathy throughout your life, not just in focus groups. I don't think I would've considered the feedback noises from wood to be an example of empathy, but thinking of even involuntary (and inhuman) feedback to be empathy is a great perspective to have going forward. This might be a smidge mundane, but just earlier today, I was dealing with communication with another party who was noticeably busier than I was. They sent a message referring to "the meeting" - from context, I had inferred that they were talking about the previous meeting we had been discussing, but what I hadn't considered was 1. the sheer amount of meetings they were coordinating and 2. some earlier context that had been relevant to a different conversation. I responded overly quickly, thinking that they misunderstood what we were talking about, while in fact I was the one who hadn't tried to connect with the messenger and made the wrong decision. I didn't honestly hear nor connect with them, and that was totally on me. Considering Lim's expanded idea of empathy (where objects are also included), I've experienced a good deal of passive empathy in most tool situations where I was dealing with metal. When working on a mill or driving a screw in with an impact driver, it's really kind of obvious when things aren't 'happy' - metal likes to screech and tell you how it feels. I hadn't really thought of that as empathy before, but given the amount that I humanize the metal in considerations of how it reacts, I do suppose I have been empathizing with it the entire time. An example of a time I find it really difficult to empathize, and that made me get better at empathizing myself, was when I was getting really, really annoyed at someone asking questions in my introductory Physics/Chemistry classes here at Mines. It seemed like every lecture, this one guy would ask a redundant question that was the exact same thing the professor had just stated, and after a couple weeks, I had started to get really annoyed - my class time was being wasted for a question that wasn't even a clarification, just a verbal repetition of what was written on the board. I went around thinking that this person was just "stupid" and mucking up classes, and then I happened to run into him at a board game night, where I mentioned that he had been in my Chem 1 lecture. Just off the cuff, no prompting from me, he mentions how these two guys behind him were whispering throughout the whole lecture, which kept distracting him. This recontextualized the entirety of his questions when I thought about them from the perspective of someone dealing with constant whispering in their ear - some things should definitely still have been saved for office hours, but the raw annoyance I felt just instantly melted away when I had that fresh context. That added consideration of context was a great slap in the face of letting my own biases and experiences particularly impact my judgements, and thinking about how things were impacting said judgements made me consider how they were also affecting me, not just how I interacted with others. 

Different paragraph header to discuss what it could mean to design for the "empathic other" - I'm honestly not entirely sure what that looks like. One of the biggest points they bring up when discussing empathic experiences is that you still need to be designing for an "Other" - not just for yourself that you have perceived to be the other. It's deeply important to empathize and connect with user groups while still considering how they aren't you - it's incredibly important to process how "Other" your Other is. If you can't properly process how someone is different than you, you're inevitably oversimplifying something, because quite literally nobody is the same as somebody else, so designing for empathic experiences would be understanding and acknowledging said differences while still connecting as deeply as you can, instead of just going "oh we're the same, focus in on the areas I do particularly understand and connect with".

