#notes #edns292  #design 


Demographics Type Questions 

- What’s your formal job title? 
    Samantha Grant, Sustainability Coordinator    

- How long have you been in the industry? 
    - Been with the city since september of last year, been in the field since 2021 
- What got you in the solar industry?  
    - Started in water, etc, etc

Literally Everything Else (Stories)  

- What's happening with solar in Golden right now?   
    - Not a whole lot, there used to be a lot of rebates and such but now they're considering bringing back some kind of rebate, but they haven't determined what that kind of looks like, maybe low income, maybe battery, for city buildings 
- Interested in community solar, big issue is not having a lot of funds so would be a private solar contractor.
- Not solar related, there is a lot of other things happening
	- City is working a lot on their own efforts being a lot more efficient, transitioning fleet vehicles to electrical, decarbonizing, sustainability rebate program that does exist for residents (except for the solar piece), but lots of focus on energy efficiency projects.
	- Waste diversion is another big focus for them and pay as you throw for residential residences.
	- Curbside recycling for mattresses and appliances
- Tell me about a time you had trouble dealing with solar panel installation? 
    

- What other problems? 
    

- Have you had to deal with poor environmental impacts? 
    

- If so, what does that look like? 
    

- If not, do you have any opinions on it? 
    

- What systems (regulatory laws, politics, tax write-offs) impact the solar industry/your company? 
    - Trying to work in tandem with the state with policy update, building energy codes have been getting updated and are working with other cohorts to kind of get that implemented. 
---



Other Connections 

- Chat with McKinstry, big Golden office and the main person that the city has woroked wtih

