#notes #eegn  #eegn281  
## Housekeeping
- Office hours are going to be right after class, MWF from 11:00 - 11:50
	- Zoom as needed
- Having some Technical Difficulties™ with Canvas
- Mid terms and final are each 25% of the grade, so, jolly yipee.
- Mastering doesn't like it if you guess and check multiple choice :LiThumbsDown:
- Completing tutorials is extra homework points, so, probably go do those
- Tests you're going to get a cheatsheet of 8.5x11 paper that you can go crazy with.
## Actual Content <sub>kinda sorta, I guess</sub>
- So what is electrical engineering?
	- You take the physics bit and you do a shit ton more math with it.
-
#### Assumptions
-  Basically everything we deal with is going to be perfect and ideal and real purty - a lightbulb isn't a filament getting heated to thousands of degrees C, it's a resistor that you put current in and something happens.
- When we discuss an electric circuit, we mean the model of it unless we specify.
- We're within the "low frequency limit," ie, everything is within range of the speed of light being effectively instant, which also makes it really nice to simplify resistors into poitns and such.
- We're staying in the nice land of circuits, and far far away from that nasty man Maxwell and his icky stinky propagation equations.
- We use SI for everything, m/kg/s

Relevant prefixes for this class:

| Prefix |     |        |
| ------ | --- | ------ |
| pico   | p   | 10^-12 |
| nano   | n   | 10^-9  |
| micro  | µ   | 10^-6  |
| milli  | m   | 10^-3  |
| kilo   | k   | 10^3   |
| mega   | M   | 10^6   |
| giga   | G   | 10^9   |
- This class isn't really an individual electron charge kinda class, so we're largely assuming continuous macro level charges. 
- "Ground" is really a convenient zero, voltage is just a measurement of how many joules you'd get moving a coulomb from point A to point B
	- Expressed as $v=\frac{dw}{dq}$
- Current differentially is $i=\frac{dq}{dt}$
	- If negative charges are moving to the right, that means there's positive current to the left (which like, empirically checks out as negative is flowing one way, so positive must be flowing the other, but still feels wrong (fuck franklin))
- Direction of positive is the circuit equivalent of saying which way is up. The math all works anyway, it's just for communication's sake.
- Positive current into a positive terminal one would indicate that the voltage drop is positive when voltage is lower at terminal two.
- Current is conserved, into 1 has to come out of 2. 
- Again, we must specify directions for voltage/current, which is completely arbitrary since it just changes the signs on $v$ and $i$
	- We have two options for directions:
		- Current reference is in the direction of the reference voltage *drop*
			- This is referred to as the passive sign convention, which has power going *into* an object.
		- Current reference in the direction of voltage *rise*
			- Which has current coming in to the negative side, which is referred to as the active sign convention, and would have components generating power if both are positive.
			- 