#notes #math225 #math 



## Laplace Transform of a Derivative
$$
\mathcal{L}\{f'(t)\} = \int_{0}^{\infty}f'(t)e^{-st}dt
$$
$$
\text{Consider} \frac{d}{dt \{e^{-st}f(t)\}}=e^{-st}f'(t) + f(t)-se^{-st}f'(t)
$$
$$
f'(t)e^{-st}= \frac{d}{dt }\{e^{-st}f(t)\}+ se^{-st}f(t)
$$
$$
\int_{0}^{\infty} \frac{d}{dt}\{e^{-st}f(t)\}dt + \int_{0}^{\infty}se^{-st}f(t)
$$
$$
e^{-st}f(t)\Big|_{0}^{\infty}+ s \int_{0}^{\infty}f(t)e^{-st}dt
$$
- We impose a condition that $\lim\limits_{t \to \infty}f(t)e^{-st}=0$
	- This is a condition we're putting on $f(t)$, which isn't a particularly strong condition and is generally how most things work
$$
-f(0)+sF(s)= \mathcal{L}\{f'(t)\}
$$
- Y'know, while we're in derivative land, we might as well go pop a peek at what's going on with the second derivative
	- We can use this formula to calculate $\mathcal{L}\{f''\}$
- We're going to let $g=f'$
$$
\mathcal{L}\{f''\}=\mathcal{L}\{g'\}= sG(s)-g(0)= sG-f'(0)
$$
$$
\mathcal{L}\{g\}=G=\mathcal{L}\{f'\}=-f(0)+sF(s)
$$
$$
\mathcal{L}\{f''\}=-sf(0)+s^{2}F(s)-f'(0)
$$
- Oh hey howdy, there's formula two.
----

## Where are we going!
- So glad you asked. We can use Laplace to solve IVPs. Let's do that, like, now.

$$
y'-5y=0, \ \ \ y(0)=2
$$
- Essentially what you do is the laplace transform of both sides
$$
\mathcal{L}\{y'-5y\}=\mathcal{L}\{0\}
$$
- We use y for the time domain, and for laplace use Y, aka $y\stackrel{\mathcal{L}}{=}Y$
- Transforms are linear, so we do
$$
\mathcal{L}\{y'\}-5\mathcal{L}\{y\}=\mathcal{L}\{0\}
$$
- Just for records sake, $\mathcal{L}\{0\}=0$
$$
sY-y(0) - 5 Y = 0
$$
$$
y(0) = 2
$$

$$
Y(s-5)-2=0
$$
- Oh hey, now we have algebra to get Y
$$
Y = \frac{2}{s-5}
$$
- Quite unfortunately, this is the answer in terms of the Laplace domain, not the time domain

$$
\mathcal{L}^{-1}\left\{ Y=\frac{2}{s-5} \right\}
$$
$$
y(t)=\mathcal{L}^{-1}\left\{ \frac{2}{s-5} \right\}
$$
$$
y(t)=2e^{5t}
$$
----

### Anotha one

$$
y''-6y'+9y=t, \ \ \ y(0)=0, y'(0)=1
$$
- Transform the equation time
$$
\mathcal{L}\{f''\}=s^{2}F-sf(0)-f'(0)
$$
$$
\mathcal{L}\{f'\}=sF-f(0)
$$
- ( equations one and two off the sheet, to recap)
$$
\overbrace{ s^{2}Y-sy(0)-y'(0) }^{ \text{Eq 2} }-\underbrace{ 6[sY-y(0)] }_{ \text{Eq 1} }+9Y= \overbrace{ \frac{1}{s^{2}}U }^{ \text{Eq 9} }
$$
$$
s^{2}Y-0 - 1-6[sY-0]+9Y = \frac{1}{s^{2}}
$$
$$
s^{2}Y-1-6sY+9Y= \frac{1}{s^{2}}
$$
$$
Y(s^{2}-6s+9) = \frac{1}{s^{2}}+1
$$
$$
Y(s-3)^{2}= \frac{1}{s^{2}}+1
$$
$$
Y = \frac{s^{2}+1}{s^{2}(s-3)^{2}}
$$
- That's our answer in Laplace, now we need to pip pop our way back into time
	- Yeaaaaaah we're going to need to do partial fractions. I hate it here.
$$
\frac{s^{2}+1}{s^{2}(s-3)^{2}}= \frac{A}{s}+\frac{B}{s^{2}}+\frac{C}{s-3}+\frac{D}{(s-3)^{2}}
$$
$$
(s^{2}+1)=A(s)(s-3)^{2}+B(s-3)^{2}+Cs^{2}(s-3)+D(s^{2})
$$
$$
(s^{2}+1)=As^{3}-6As^{2}+9As+Bs^{2}-6Bs+9B+Cs^{3}-3Cs^{2}+Ds^{2}
$$
---
$$
A+C=0
$$
$$
-6A+B-3C+D=1
$$
$$
9A-6B=0
$$
$$
9B=1
$$
- Is all those equations extracted
$$
A=\frac{6}{8}, B = \frac{1}{9}, C = -\frac{6}{81}, D = \frac{90}{81}
$$
$$
\frac{6}{81}* \frac{1}{s} + \frac{1}{9}* \frac{1}{s^{2}}- \frac{6}{81}* \frac{1}{s-3}+ \frac{90}{81}* \frac{1}{(s-3)^{2}}
$$
- Ok now do the inverse laplace transform of like all of those. Dance, monkey, dance.
$$
y(t)=\frac{6}{81}(1)+ \frac{1}{9}t - \frac{6}{81}e^{3t}+ \frac{90}{81}te^{3t}
$$