#notes #math225 #math 


### Right back to our review
$$\frac{x^2}{(x+2)(x^{2}+1)}$$
- Just as an example piece. That second term $(x^{2}+1)$ is an irreducible quadratic, so then expanding this all would look something like $$\frac{A}{(x+2)}+\frac{Bx+C}{(x^{2}+1)}$$
- If we had to integrate this, you'd be integrating the two different fraction chunks, probably do a $u$ sub or look something up, a little $\ln$, all such fun

#### Implicit Differentiation
$$y\sin x = x+y$$
- Let's say we want to figure out $\frac{dy}{dx}$ for that
	- If you do $\frac{d}{dx}$ for both sides (ie)
$$\frac{d}{dx}(y\sin x) = \frac{d}{dx}(x+y)$$
$$y\cos x + \frac{dy}{dx}\sin x = 1 + \frac{dy}{dx}$$
$$\frac{dy}{dx}=\frac{1-y\cos x}{\sin x -1}$$
#### Last up is Log/Exponent rules
$$\ln(xy)= \ln x + \ln y$$
$$\ln \left(\frac{x}{y}\right)= \ln x - \ln y$$
$$\ln(x^{p}) = p\ln x$$
$$e^{x+y}=e^{x}* e^{y}$$
$$(e^{x})^{p}= e^{px}$$
$$\ln(e^{x})=x$$
$$e^{\ln x}=x$$
$$\ln(e)=1$$
##### Ok lasty of last up is absolute value 
$$|x| = \{\begin{matrix}x \text{ if } x\geq0 \\ -x \text{ if } x < 0 \end{matrix}\}$$
- Just to have a formal definition of absolute value up on the board

## Now for differential equations (and why) <sub>y'know, we have a whole course about it</sub>
- A differential equation is an equation that has derivatives in it (wow!)
- So, an example might be $$m\frac{d^{2}x}{dt^{2}}=-mg-b \frac{dx}{dt}$$
	- $-b \frac{dx}{dt}$ is a resistive force we smacked on, proportional to the velocity (because velocity is the first derivative of position with respect to time) 
		- Cheap and dirty way of showing fluid/air resistance.
			- If you go into aerospace, shockingly, this doesn't work. But it gets the vibe across.
- Another example is something like $$\frac{dN}{dt}= kN$$
	- This can represent an awful lot of things, but the vibe here is a population, where this works as a simple model.
- Yet another example
	$$a \frac{\partial ^{2}u}{\partial t^{2}}=\frac{\partial ^{2}u}{\partial x^{2}}$$
	- This is the wave equation, represents the propagation of a wave
- Fun note: Differential equations can't always be solved! Or have some other weird bullshit going on in the answer that just doesn't really work! Or maybe they represent unnamed functions that don't really exist! Shit's weird.

### How do we classify differential equations, anyway?
#### Type
- Type can be either
	- Ordinary
		- This is $\frac{dx}{dt}$, $\frac{d^{2}x}{dt}$, etc etc
	- Partial
		- If there are partials, ($\frac{\partial u}{\partial t}, \frac{\partial^{2}u}{\partial x^{2}}$), that makes it partial
	- This is a course on ordinary derivatives, not partials.
#### Order
- Refers to the order of the highest derivative in the equation 
		- Quick aside on how we can represent derivatives (review)
			- Can have $y'$,$y''$, this becomes rapidly impractical if you're writing something like $y''''''$, so you can also just put $y^{(6)}$ to represent the 6th derivative 
			- Can get leibniz-y with it, $\frac{dy}{dx}$, $\frac{d^{2}y}{dx^{2}}$ 
			- Especially with time derivatives, $\dot{x}= \frac{dx}{dt}$, $\ddot{x} = \frac{d^{2}x}{dt^{2}}$

#### Examples
- So, if we were to classify something $$ \frac{d^{2}y}{dx^{2}} + 2 \left(\frac{dy}{dx}\right)^{3}+3 = 0$$
	- So that's ordinary, because there's no partials
	- Second order, because there's that $d^{2}y$ bit hanging out - that $^{3}$ is just there as bait on the $\frac{dy}{dx}$, that's just a first order derivative, cubed.
$$\frac{dy}{dt}+ \frac{d^{3}y }{dt^{3}}+t=0$$ - This is a 3rd order, ordinary differential equation.
#### Linearity and Such
- We can express an nth-order ODE as $F(x,y,y'...y^{(n)})=0$ 
	- Here $x$ is the independent variable and $y$ is the dependent variable.
	- It is customary to separate out the highest derivative (or otherwise solve for it), and then you're left with something like $$y^{(n)}=(x,y,....y^{(n-1)})$$
		- This is referred to as "normal form"
	- For a first order equation, $\frac{dy}{dx}=f(x,y)$
	- Second order (like Newton's/Kirchoff's Laws) $\frac{d^{2}y}{dx^{2}}=g(x,y,y')$ 
- Ok actually getting back to linearity and what we mean by that
	- $F(x,y,y'...y^{(n)})=0$ is linear if <sub>textbook quote</sub> "F is linear in $y,y',....y^{(n)}$"
		- Wow, it's linear if it's linear. Fuck you too.
	- Alright, what does this actually mean?
		1. Dependent variable $y$ and all of its derivatives occur only to the first power. 
			1. $y,y',zy''$ etc are all linear
			2.  $y^{2},\sqrt{y},(y')^{2}$ are all examples of nonlinear terms
		2. The coefficients that multiply the dependent variable and its derivatives are constants or functions of the independent variable ($x$, in our running example)
			1. $2y,3y',xy$ are all examples of linear (even that cheeky little $x$). Hell, even $\sqrt{x}y$ is fine, because that $x$ is a function of the independent variable
			2. $y*y'$, however, is nonlinear. $\sqrt{y}y'$ is nonlinear, all those things with multiple $y$'s lobbing themselves around is nonlinear