#notes #math225 #math 



$$x \frac{d^{2}y}{dx^{2}}+y^{2}=0$$
- That's an ordinary 2nd order equation, that is nonlinear because of that $y^{2}$ term kicking it around
	- If there were any other $y$ terms not just as normal, we would be nonlinear
$$x\left(\frac{dy}{dx}\right)^{2}+y = 0$$
- Is just fine, that's ordinary (no partials), first order (no powers on differential), linear (no bonus powers)

$$\sin\theta * \frac{d^{2}y}{d\theta^{2}}+\cos\theta  *y=0$$
- Still looks ordinary to me, 2nd order (from the $y$), sure looks linear to me

### Solutions
- A solution to an ordinary differential equation is some function $\phi$, such that $\phi$ and its derivatives exist over some interval $\alpha < x < \beta$ and $\phi$ satisfies the D.E.
- In general, our solution might comprise a family of curves (more than one function that satisfies the differential equation) 
	- Consider $\frac{dy}{dx}=x$ 
		- I mean, you just integrate the thing. $y=\frac{x^{2}}{2}+C_{1}$ works just fine for me.
			- That $C_{1}$ means you have a whole family of curves you can shift around
- Often, we'll be given extra information that allows us to determine the constant (ie, to narrow which of the family of curves we actually care about)
	- This information might be the value of $y$ at some $x$, typically $x=0$ 
		- That's an initial value problem right there
			- A differential equation along with the initial conditions (ICs) is called, well, that. An initial value problem

### Example time
#### firstsies
$$y'+2xy^{2}=0$$
- We assert that $y = \frac{1}{x^{2}+C_{1}}$ is a solution to this problem
- Show that that is a solution to this problem $$y' = \frac{-2x}{(x^{2}+C_{1})^{2}}$$
We plug in!

$$\frac{-2x}{(x^{2}+C_{1})^{2}}+\frac{2x}{(x^{2}+C_{1})^{2}}=0$$
- That sure looks correct to me. $0=0$ checks out just fine.
- Oh, let's say we get some initial value, like $y(2)=\frac{1}{3}$ 
	- We can go around plugging this in to our $y(x)$ equation, or $\frac{1}{3}= \frac{1}{4+C_{1}}$, so $C_{1}= -1$ 
- So, the solution to this IVP is $y = \frac{1}{x^{2}-1}$ 
	- Which, of note, doesn't exist at $x=\pm1$ 
	- Also taking a peeksie at $y' = \frac{-2x}{(x^{2}-1)^{2}}$, which also does not exist at the same places, $x=\pm1$
	- Possible intervals are $(-\infty,-1)$, $(-1,1)$, $(1,\infty)$, essentially anything *not* including $\pm 1$
		- Which is all, like, standard algebra stuff, just bears writing out

#### we go again
$$x''+x=0$$
- This has the solution $x(t)=C_{1}\cos t + C_{2}\sin t$
- We are told that:
	- $x(0)=-1$ (the initial position) 
	- $x'(0)=8$ (the initial velocity)
- So just plugging in to the equation
	- $x(0)= -1 = C_{1}$
	- $x' = -C_{1}\sin t + C_{2}\cos t$
	- $x'(0)=8=c_{2}$
- So then the solution to this just becomes
	- $x(t)=-\cos t + 8 \sin t$
- We'll get to solving equations... someday! We'll get there. I swear.

### Existence and Uniqueness Theorem (what a name)
- If $f(t,y)$ and the partial $\frac{\partial f}{\partial y}(t,y)$ are continuous at $(t_{0},y_{0})$ then the IVP $y'=f(t,y)$ with the initial condition $y(t_{0})=y_{0}$ has a unique solution in the neighborhood of $(t_{0},y_{0})$ 
	- If these conditions aren't met, there *could* be a solution. We have no fucking idea, and there's no theorem to help us. Godspeed, brave soldier.
- Aside: partials exist
	- ie, the partial $\frac{\partial f}{\partial y}$, if $f(x,y)$ is a thing, you just do the derivative with respect to $y$. It's a partial. It exists. You do it. Treat the bits you don't care about as constant, have fun. 
		- ie ie, if the function is $x^{2}y$, the partial with respect to $y$ is $x^{2}$
#### Exampling
$$y'=t\sqrt{y}, \ t(0)=0$$
Ok, so you ask your questions, do as you do
$$\frac{\partial f}{\partial y }= \frac{t}{2\sqrt{y}}$$
