#notes #math225 #math 

## examples from our theorem adventure last time
$$y'=t\sqrt{y}, \ y(0)=0$$
- So in the terminology of our original theorem, $f(t,y)=t\sqrt{y}$
	- Continuous at $(0,0)$
		- Function is doing just fine, no shenanigans, we're good
- Our other check was $\frac{\partial f}{\partial y}= \frac{\frac{1}{2}t}{\sqrt{y}}$ 
	- That, uh, doesn't exist at $y=0$. So is therefore not continuous.
- This means that our theorem is not met, so we have no fucking idea what happens.
	- There could be a unique solution! Could not be! Couldn't tell ya.

---
$$y'=\sqrt{y^{2}-9}$$
- $f(x,y)=\sqrt{y^{2}-9}$, which has a problem on the interval $-3 < y < 3$
	- Which is a problem in and of itself, but regardless
- $\frac{\partial f}{\partial y}= \frac{2y}{2\sqrt{y^{2}-9}} = \frac{y}{\sqrt{y^{2}-9}}$
	- Noooow we have a problem on the interval $-3 \leq y \leq 3$
		- Which causes that whole thing to blow up / not exist, and generally is a bad time
- Unique solutions are guaranteed everywhere except $-3 \leq y \leq 3$, any other initial condition, existence is guaranteed (yippee!)
	- So if we were given $(1,4)$, or $y(1)=4$, that works out just fine. It's not in our bounds.
	- On the other hand, if we were given $y(0)=2$, we have no idea what happens. Could be a solution! Couldn't tell ya.
----

Show that $y = \frac{1}{3}e^{x}+ c_{1}e^{-2x}$ is a solution of $y' + 2y = e^{x}$
- So just, take the derivative 
$$y' = \frac{1}{3}e^{x}- 2c_{1}e^{-2x}$$
- If you go and plug in
$$\frac{1}{3}e^{x}- 2c_{1}e^{-2x}+2 ( \frac{1}{3}e^{x}+c_{1}e^{-2x})=e^{x}$$
$$e^{x}-2c_{1}e^{-2x}+2c_{1}e^{-2x}=e^{x}, e^{x}= e^{x}$$
- Suppose we have some initial condition $y_{0}=1$, what is the particular solution?
$$1 = \frac{1}{3}+c_{1}$$
$$c_{1}= \frac{2}{3}$$
- So, fully written out with the initial condition, the solution becomes $$y = \frac{1}{3}e^{x}+ \frac{2}{3}e^{-2x}$$
---

$$y = \frac{1}{1-e^{-t}}$$
- is a solution to some differential equation.
	- This solution does not exist when $e^{-t}=1$, or when $t=0$, 
- We can define intervals of solution, for instance $(-\infty, 0)$, or $(0,\infty)$

## moving on to chapter 2 (eat it, 1.3)
- Quirky little reminder that $\frac{dy}{dx}$ is a slope - the slope of a tangent line at some given point, but a slope nonetheless
	- If we evaluate $\frac{dy}{dx}=f(x,y),$ we can determine the slope as we move around the x-y plane (this is called a slope or direction field)
#### Autonomous Differential Equations
- This is when the independent variable does not explicitly occur
	- ie, $\frac{dy}{dx}=f(y)$ 
- The points, $c$, at which $f(y)=0$, are called fixed points, **critical points**, stationary points, equilibrium points, the list goes on
- If $c$ is a critical point, then the function $y=c$ is a solution to the differential equation