#notes #math225 #math 

## Housekeeping
- Exam is in Hill 202 like the last one

## Examples and Practice and Such
$$
y''+25y=0
$$
- This is undamped because there's no $y'$ term.
	- Is also undriven/unforced because we weren't given a driving force, so it's just rockin along.
- Characteristic equation this bad boy

$$
(r^{2}+25=0) \implies r= \pm 5i
$$
$$
y=c_{1}\cos(5t)+c_{2}\sin(5t)
$$
- Now, if we were to change it up a bit and start driving
$$
y''+2ty=2\cos(5t)
$$
	- Still undamped, but now we have a driving force
$$
y=y_{c}+y_{p}
$$
$$
y_{c}=c_{1}\cos(5t)+c_{2}\sin(5t)
$$
- With something muc-y like this, we make a guess
$$
y_{p}=A\cos(5t)+B\sin(5t)
$$
- Problem, guess is exactly the same as $y_{c}$, so we need to shift the guess by slapping a $t$ on repeated terms in the guess
$$
y_{p}=At\cos(5t)+Bt\sin(5t)
$$
- Because we've slapped our $t$ on, we're now in resonance and therefore will be growing over time.
- Now, if we were to change it up a bit more
$$
y''+2ty=\cos(4t)
$$
$$
y_{p}=A\cos(4t)+B\sin(4t)
$$
- Which is then not present in $y_{c}$, so you can just generally slap them together.
	- This leads to beats, where sometimes they spike due to happening to add together.

## EXAM HINT
- THERE IS TOTALLY A QUESTION WHERE YOU MATCH GRAPHS OF SINUSOIDAL DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS THAT ARE OSCILLATING.


- Now, if we were to change it up yet a bit more
$$
y''+2ty=u(t-3)
$$
$$
y(0)=y'(0)=0
$$
- We know at times between $0 <t < 3$, nothing is happening, because the driving force hasn't turned on yet.
- We know that this starts oscillating at 3 probably sinusoidish, but until then there is NOTHING
- This solution would pop out some $y(t)=u(t-3)*f(n)$
---
$$
y''+y'+25y=0
$$
- This is damped because of the $y'$ term, but undriven because still equal to zero.
	- Dynamics for this are determined by the sign of $\beta^{2}-4km$
		- That all comes from quadratic formula solving, the $\beta$ term is inside the square root of the quadratic
			- If $\beta^{2}-4km>0$, then taking the square root is perfectly fine and legal and we get an overdamped system.
			- If $\beta^{2}=4km$, we're critically damped
			- If it's negative, we're both in imaginary shenanigans and underdamped and that's how we get sines and cosines through Euler's formula
				- This is, of note, the only one that really oscillates ad infinitem.
---
$$
f(t)=te^{-t}
$$
---
- Fun with graphs.
---
### Worksheet Stuff
- 1d

$$
h(t)=1-u(t-2)+u(t-2)\cos(t-2)
$$
$$
\mathcal{L}\{h(t)\}=\mathcal{L}\{1\}-\mathcal{L}\{u(t-2)\}+\mathcal{L}\{u(t-2)\cos(t-2)\}
$$
$$
\mathcal{L}\{1\}=\frac{1}{s}
$$
$$
\mathcal{L}\{u(t-2)\}= \frac{e^{-2s}}{s}
$$
$$
\mathcal{L}\{u(t-2)\cos(t-2)\}= \frac{e^{-2s}s}{s^{2}+4}
$$
$$
\mathcal{L}\{h(t)\}=\frac{1}{s}- \frac{e^{-2s}}{s} + \frac{se^{-2s}}{s^{2}+1}
$$

