#notes #math225 #math 

## Housekeeping
- There are office hours Friday 1:15 to 3:5 in Engineering Annex, not the usual 3-4.
- Topic list coming out soon, previous exams are somewhere under Files.

### The Great Lake of Acid
- If you end up doing the problem and getting something like $$\frac{(2000)^{51}}{(2001)^{50}}= \frac{(2000)^{51}*2001}{(2001)^{50}*2001}= \left(\frac{2000}{2001}\right)^{51}*2001$$ 
- You could also binomial expansion this if you're feeling quirked up, but that's a *lot* of work.

## Some Review
#### Existence + Uniqueness
$$\frac{dy}{dx}= f(x,y) \ \ \ y(x_{0})= y_{0}$$
- This IVP is guaranteed a unique solution when both $f(x,y)$ and $\frac{\partial f}{\partial y}(x,y)$ are continuous

- Section 1.2 Problems 25-28

$$\frac{dy}{dx}= (y^{2}-9)^{\frac{1}{2}}$$
$$f(x,y) = (y^{2}-9)^{\frac{1}{2}}$$
- This function is independent of x, so it'll be continuous for any value of x.
- $f$ is defined when $y \geq 3$ or when $y \leq -3$. It'll be defined at $y=\pm3$, but it definitely won't be continuous. 

$$\frac{\partial f}{\partial y}= \frac{y}{\sqrt{y^{2}-9}}$$
- This function $\frac{\partial f}{\partial y}$ is defined for $y>3$ and $y < -3$
- The general takeaway is any $x$ value, but $y$ has to be greater than 3 or less than negative three.
	- Is there a unique solution at $(1,4)$? Yep, sure seems like it.
	- Is there a unique solution at $(5,3)$? Nope. The partial isn't continuous in there, so absolutely not.
	- Is there a unique solution at $(2,-3)$? Nope. The partial doesn't exist there, so absolutely not.
	- Is there a unique solution at $(-1,1)$? Nope. That shit's imaginary.
#### Worksheet 3, Problem 3D
$$\frac{dy}{dx}= y^{2}(4-y^{2}) \ \ \ \ \ \ y(0)=2$$
$$\frac{dy}{4y^{2}-y^{4}}=dx$$
- What is the solution that goes through that initial condition (Note: you don't really have to solve anything here.)
- This differential equation has critical points at $y=0,-2,2$, you figure out if the slope is positive or negative in each of those regions, but remember, the critical points themselves are solutions! So we're just saying that $\frac{dy}{dx}= 0$, which works for literally any constant, but the IC was $y(0)=2$ so $y=2$ is the solution for $y=2$. Shit crazy.
- The limit for that solution? 2. $y=2$. Don't get futsy.


----

$$\int xe^{x}dx$$
- Spits us out an integration by parts
$$u = x, dv = e^{x}dx$$
$$\int udv$$
$$\int x \sin(x) dx$$
$$u = x, dv = \sin(x)dx$$
$$\int x \ln(x)dx$$
- You'd at least try parts
$$u = \ln(x), dv = xdx$$
---

$$\frac{dy}{dx}= y^{2}$$
$y=0$, the critical point, is semi stable, because the solutions near it the bottom is approaching and top is goin away