#notes #math213 #math #calc



## Green's Theorem (but we getting fluxxy with it)
- Let $C$ be a simple closed piecewise smooth curve, CCW something a connected and simply connected region R
- Assume $\vec{F}=<f,g>$ that is differentiable
	- Connected just means that any 2 points in the region can be connected with a continuous path.
		- An example is a sphere, or box
	- Simply connected means "no holes"
		- An example of something that's connected, but not simply connected would be a torus - if you were to shrink the region around a point, at some point you gotta deal with the hole.
- That then makes the equation
	$$\oint_{C}\vec{F}\cdot\vec{n} ds = \iint_{R}[f_{x}+g_{y}\text{ honestly I dunno I whiffed this one}]$$
	
- If $f_{x}$ is positive, then there'll be an expansion of flux away from the point (in the x direction)
	- If $f_{x}$ is negative, there's a contraction of flux towards the point (in the y direction)
- If $g_{y}$ is positive, there'll be expansion of flux away (in the y direction)
	- You're never going to believe this, but there's going to be a contraction of flux (in the y)
- This works out where if $f_{x}+g_{y}>0$, then you have outward flux and everything holds up all neat

#### Example time!
- Use Green's Theorem (fluxxy edition) to compute outward flux of $\vec{F}=<x,y>$ across $C=\{(x,y)\mid x^{2}+y^{2}=1\}$
- With this, we just get to set up 
$$\iint (f_{x}+g_{y})=\iint(1+1)dA$$
- I believe that I can integrate the number two.
$$\int_{0}^{2\pi}\int_{0}^{1}2r\ drd\theta=2\pi$$
- Wow, that was awesome. Easy. Delightful even.

### some new thing
- Now that we've shown $\oint_{C}\vec{F}\cdot\vec{n}ds$ will yield flux across $C$ and $\iint_{R}[f_{x}+g_{y}]dA$ will yield the net expansion value.
- The Divergence Theorem is the 3d extension (expansion, whatever you want to call it) of Green's Flux Form.

- Let $\vec{F}$ be a vector field with continuous first ordered partials in a connected and simply connected region, $D$ in $\mathbb{R}^{3}$, enclosed by an orientable surface $S$.Then for $\vec{n}$ being the outward normal vector.. $$\iint_{S}\vec{F}\cdot\vec{n}\ ds = \iiint_{D}(\nabla \cdot \vec{F})dV$$
- Rewritten in english (ish)
$$\text{Flux over a boundry = Cumulative expansion/contraction in 3 dimensions}$$