#notes #math213 #math #calc



## some shenanigans with special types of curves I dunno man
- Suppose a curve $C$ is given by $\vec{r}(t)$ from $a \leq t \leq b$. C is simple if $\vec{r}(t)\neq \vec{r}(t_{2})\forall t_{1},t_{2}\in[a,b]$ 
	- Read: the path cannot intersect itself
- $C$ is closed if $\vec{r}(a)=\vec{r}(b)$ 
	- Read: start spot is the same as the end spot
	- This makes a circle closed. Don't overcomplicate it.
	- A single traversal of a circle is simple *and* closed. The endpoint doesn't constitute an intersection due to <sub>what I feel is a smidget of bullshit</sub> a point not counting as an intersection.
- This is a sub field of topology known as knot theory! You can be a doctor in this.

#### Election results.
- A $\vec{F}$ is conservative on a region (in $\mathbb{R}^{2}$ or $\mathbb{R}^{3}$) if $\exists\phi$ such that $\nabla y = \vec{F}$  where $\phi$ is scalar valued.
	- Example: If $\vec{F}=<y,x>$ and $\phi=xy+1$, is $\vec{F}$ conservative?
	$$\nabla\phi \stackrel{?}{=}\vec{F}$$$$<y,x>=<y,x> \text{ yep, so we're conservative (grr)}$$
- Note, $\phi$ is called a potential function.
	- A potential function is a function that is a scalar valued whose gradient produces a vector field is a potential function.

### How to find your potential (a step by step guide)
1. Do the integrals.
	1. $\int fdx$
	2. $\int gdy$
	3. $\int h dz$
2. Add up all terms from all three integrals, excluding duplicates (ie, if you got duplicate terms from two of them, toss one of em out)
3. Assign a C (most people choose zero)

##### Example
- Let $\vec{F}=<x+y+z,x-2y+z,x+y-3z^{2}>$
1. Okie, do your integrals
	1. $\int fdx = \int(x+y+z)dx = \frac{x^{2}}{2}+xy+xz+C$ 
	2. $\int gdy = \int (x-2y+z)dy = xy - y^{2}+yz+C_{2}$
	3. $\int hdz = \int x+y -3z^{2}= xz + yz -z^{3}+C_{3}$
2. So now you smack em all together
	1. $\phi = \frac{x^{2}}{2}+ xy + xz - y^{2}+yz -z^{3}+C$
3. This is, definitively, *THE* potential function.
	-  Quick check though, ig
	- $\nabla_{\phi}=\vec{F} =<x+y+z,x-2y+z,x+y-3z^{2}>$
	- Which, shockingly, is what we did. Crazy.
#### some fresh hell
- Let $\vec{F}=<f,g,h>$ defined on a closed and simple region $D$ on $\mathbb{R}^{3}$. Let f,g,h have continuous 1st order partials on $D$. 
- Then, F is going to be conservative $\iff$ (iff and only iff) $$\frac{\partial f}{\partial y} = \frac{\partial g}{\partial x}, \frac{\partial f}{\partial z}= \frac{\partial h}{\partial x}, \frac{\partial g}{\partial z}=\frac{\partial h}{\partial y}$$
	- Quick note, in $\mathbb{R}^{2},\vec{F}$ is going to be conservative if $\frac{\partial f}{\partial y}=\frac{\partial g}{\partial x}$

##### example time! yippeee!
1. Time to test if $<y,x>$ is conservative
	- It is if the partials are the same, so if $\frac{\partial f}{\partial y} = \frac{\partial g}{\partial x}$, which in this case is if $1=1$, which sure seems conservative to me.
2. Now, is $<-y,x>$ conservative?
	- Same process of $\frac{\partial f}{\partial y} = \frac{\partial g}{\partial x}$, except now we end up with $-1 \stackrel{?}{=}1$, which uh, does not check out. So nope! Fuck you.
3. Now for the fun part, is $<y\sin x, e^{y}-\cos x, z>$ conservative?
	- We actually have three dimensions, so we need to check all of them, so...
		- $\frac{\partial f}{\partial y} = \frac{\partial g}{\partial x}$ gives us $\sin(x)\stackrel{?}{=}\sin(x)$, which sure checks out to me.
		- $\frac{\partial f}{\partial z} = \frac{\partial h}{\partial x}$ gives us $0\stackrel{?}{=}0$, which sure checks out to me.
		- $\frac{\partial g}{\partial z} = \frac{\partial h}{\partial y}$ gives us $0\stackrel{?}{=}0$, which sure checks out to me.
	- So we are conservative! Wowie zowie.
##### actually vaguely proving this?
- Show that $\text{curl}(\vec{F})=\vec{0}$ for $\vec{F}=<y\sin(x),e^{y}-\cos(x),z>$, so we're doing $\nabla\times\vec{F}$ 
$$\begin{matrix}\hat\imath & \hat\jmath & \hat{k} \\ \frac{\partial}{\partial x} & \frac{\partial}{\partial y} & \frac{\partial}{\partial z} \\ y\sin x  & e^{y}-\cos x & z\end{matrix}$$
- Honestly, there's a metric ton of algebra that I don't really want to write out. It all shakes out in the big icky cross product to be the theorem that we already made. I swear. Don't make me do this.

##### back to doing example (s)
- If $\vec{F}=<y+z,x+z,x+y>$, show it's conservative
	- $f_{y}=1=g_{x}$. yeppers
	- $f_{z}=1=h_{x}$, yepperoni
	- $g_{z}=1=h_{y}$, sure thing
- Sure looks conservative to me

- Find $\phi$ for that vector field that we just did
- Alrighty, do your integrals
	- $\int f_{x}= yx + zx + C_{1}$
	- $\int g_{y}= xy+zy + C_{2}$
	- $\int h_{z}= xz+yz +C_{3}$
- Now smack em together
	- $\phi = xy + xz + yz + C$
- Call