#notes #econ #ebgn321

## Minimum Rate of Return!
- Pederson generally using Opportunity Cost of Capital because that's what he likes, the PE/FE uses MARR
- $i^{*}$ is defined as the compound interest measure of opportunity foregone if a different investment alternative is selected
	- OR, a measure of future compound interest returns that are PASSED UP when an investor chooses a different course of action with their money
- Tentatively, I fuck heavy with opportunity cost of capital 
### Schools of thought Regarding i$^*$
- Weighted average cost of capital (WACC) is based on determining the investor's true minimum
- Opportunity cost prefer to use min or average rate of return that is "foregone" when choosing to do something else with their money
- "I say 'I don't think you understand math', which, generally not a good start to a conversation with your spouse" - Pederson
- A publicly traded company (essentially) always has the option to:
	- Pay off existing debt
	- Buy back outstanding stock 
- Y'know, knowing that he lived in college in a three bedroom house with twelve guys explains a lot.
- Weighted Average Cost of Capital is derive dfrom existing debt and existing outstanding equity
	- It does NOT incorporate project financing (borrowing money), which is the very last lecture
#### Cost of Equity Capital
- 1980 some dudes from Chicago basically fucking nailed it with the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM)
1. Estimating the current yield on long-term U.S. Treasury Bonds (Rf)
	1. Why the hell would I buy your debt instead of the risk free government bond?
		1. Well, I have more risk, but there's more return!
2. Estimating the equity risk premium related to the spread between common stock returns and US Treasury Bonds (Rp)
	1. Why should I buy your stock instead of the S&P 500? I'm diversified over there, it's pretty reliable over there
3. Estimating the company's ßeta factor which measures volatility for the company relative to the market
- And this spits out the CAPM, Rf + Rp(ßeta) + Dividends
- CAPM represents the expected returns shareholders are hoping to receive
- If we're private, we have something else we have to deal with, but debt is a way easier thing to deal with and we can just look it up.
- If we're after tax, debt is deductible on your taxes, so that's a problem for *laterrr*
#### Alright, this seems great, hold on a second
- This implies that you have enough capital budget (unlimited) that everything can be taken out to the theoretical limit of profit
- Many companies have some kind of budget! What is it? Fuck if we know, but we gotta shift our cost curve up and to the left.

---- 
Town hall for faculty
- We can't grow the undergraduate student body!
	- So what do we grow? Gotta be graduates!
- Federal funding is *fucked*
---
#### "In theory, there is no difference between theory and practice. In practice, there is."
- Most people will start with a WACC, and then they'll throw a hurdle rate on it to figure out what they're actually willing to do.
- A company's WACC that they discount might be 10%, and then a 20% return before they're willing
- This is not preferred economics, but it is reality, so just like paying off your house, you gotta do it.
### Rule of 72
- If you take 72 and divide by the number of years you want to take to double your money, you get the rate of return!
	- So if you want to double your money in five years, 72/5, you get 14.4%
	- 
### Didn't feel like writing notes for most of this, but
- Payback is a value that does NOT discount, and is just "when you earn your money back." What a silly little value.
- GROR is what happens if you reinvest your cash flows instead of.... something happening to them.
- 