#notes #econ #ebgn321


## Overall Cost of Borrowing Money - APR
- You get quoted this every time you borrow money - it's on credit cards, student loans, the whole deal.
- We've *also* talked about Annual Percentage Yield, which is really just the same thing except from the other perspective.
	- They're all interest! You pay a rate, someone earns a yield, whatever, blah blah.
- Pederson does just make me giggle sometimes
	- "Reading a book on the history of interest rates, I'm so excited" and then he did a little dance
- There's some problem statement I can't read.
	- Quoted a 5.5% rate, over 12, effective monthly rate of 0.4583%
	- 15 years we get 180 months
- A is going to be 200,000 * (A/P<sub>0.4583,180</sub>)= $1,643.17
	- The bank requires a 3.13 point fee on the loan.
- We do not receive 200,000.
	- Fee is going to 0.313\*200,0000 which is going to be $6,260 of fee to get the loan in the first. place.
- So how much does the bank actually pay?
	- So the bank is only really out $193,740, ***BUT*** we still have to repay the full $200,000! Even though you had to pay a fee! I hate for profit banking.
- Alright, the pw of this all is going to be:
	- 0 = -193,740 + 1634(P/A<sub>i,80</sub>)
		- This question doesn't ask you to interpolate, sooo, just solve, you get i=0.4994, which looks like it spits out like 5.99% APR
----

### Present Worth Cost Analysis ("CNC")
- Same service for the same life
	- It would be inappropriate to compare renting a house for two years to buying a house for fifteen
- Looking at two scenarios/cash flow diagrams


| Exist       | 0    | 1    | 2    | 3    | 4       |     |
| ----------- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ------- | --- |
| Old         | -    | -300 | -330 | -360 | -400    |     |
| New         | -200 | -220 | -240 | -260 | -290+50 |     |
| Incremental | -200 | 80   | 90   | 100  | 110+50  |     |

- We'll deal with some minimum rate of return of 20%, so that's our i*
- PNC of old is: -300(P/F<sub>1</sub>) -330 (P/F<sub>2</sub>) -360(P/F<sub>3</sub>) -400 (P/F<sub>4</sub>) = -880
- PNC of new is -200-220(P/F<sub>1</sub>) -240 (P/F<sub>2</sub>) -260(P/F<sub>3</sub>) -240 (P/F<sub>4</sub>) = -816
- Some incredibly complex economic comparisons say that solar panels are the correct economic choice.

- If we go incremental New-Old, you get the exact same answer of 64 of awesome! Incredible!

- This just in, Pederson is concerned about the health value of Mines Market meals.

----
#### Sally The Seller House Example


| -100,000 | -2661 | -2661 | .... |     | -2661 + 500,000 |
| -------- | ----- | ----- | ---- | --- | --------------- |
| 0        | 1     | 2     | .... |     | 36 months       |
| -3000    | -3000 | -3000 | ...  | ... | -0              |
- To figure out how much we take home from selling the house, we gotta run a P/A factor way out at 36, we know all our rates, term of 324 months for the rest of the loan, yadayada, we end up taking home 113,092.18, which is like, the down payment plus what we paid. Neat.
- Meanwhile, if we look at leasing, we just have -3000 a month or whatever
- we need i*, which we'll just call 10%. Sure, why not.
	- HOWEVER! we need it monthly! and we can't just divide by twelve! We use 10% = (1+i)^n -1, which, plug in 12 for n, you get i=0.7976
- We get some PWC by just taking 100,000, subtracting off the P/A value, adding in the sale value, we get -98,028 for our owning example.
- -300 -300(P/A,35), and we get a lease payment -94,302
- Math says ya lease the asset. Job done, biddly bang, biddly bop.
- Now if you wanted the value that makes it worth, you just slap an x around somewhere
- Pick ONE track homework, and say which one you did, and if you don't say it, the graders get angry. Don't make your grader angry.

