#notes #econ #ebgn321


- Unless otherwise specified, assume end of period cash flows (except for one mysterious exception)
	- Rent or lease payments are generally at the beginning of the period, because that's how that works.
- This class is going to make me an alcoholic.
	- If your payments are in the middle of the period, your value is... in between the end/beginning values. 
		- I hate it here.

#### Hopefully something less insane
- Nominal vs period rates
	- Nominal rate is annual rate, r
	- m is the number of compounding periods per year
	- This is all business as usual
	- Nominal rate r divided by m spits out i, your period rate.
- Example time
	- We want a 6% compounded monthly
		- r/m spits out 0.5% per month
	- Let's say the MSRP of a car is 29,500
	- Residual value at the end of the lease of 19,500
	- As long as your signs are opposite it doesn't matter, do whatever you want
	- Plug n chug your math, you get an A value of $401.70
		- Of note, the A values are in 1-36, which isn't where we want them. We want them in 0-35.
		- We do that shift, and we end up at $399.70, which is our A value for 0-35.
	- Fun fact, you can discount yourself into the past if you hate the otherwise still fucked up math we're doing. Neat.
- Effective interest rate is cumulative interest in one year
	- Useful for actually being able to compare interest rates
	- E is the same as APY, Annual Percentage Yield

---
### Chase Bank, back when my dad was 24
- Had a nominal rate of 4.97% CD
	- Quoted as an APY of 5.1%
- r/m spits out 0.000136164
- If you bother to carry all that through, you get 5.095%, which is a sig fig rounding error

----
