#notes #econ #ebgn321

### Housekeeping
- You have to do **two** practice problems.
	- "You should do all of them" yeah right
- Make as many comments as you need to make it vaguely look like you interacted with it and learned something
	- It's vague. Have fun.

### Content probably actually
- The answer to part A in the homework is NOT $200.
	- Do not pass go, I guess
- Obligatory reminder that i and n have to be in the same units

| Factor | Excel | Random | Generic                       |
| ------ | ----- | ------ | ----------------------------- |
| P      | PV    | PW     | Present Single Sum            |
| F      | FV    | FW     | Future Single Sum             |
| A      | PMT   | S      | Annuity Series of Cash Flows  |
| i      | I/YR  | I      | Period interest rate          |
| n      | nper  | N      | Number of compounding periods |
- There's all kinds of calculation bullshits you can slap together and that's all the factor shenanigans.

$$
F_{96}=1.00(F/P_{10.2463\%})
$$
$$
F_{96}=1.00*(1+.102643)^{96} = 11,851
$$
- Let's say I got $1000 invested, annual 12%, how much do I have in 10 years?
$$
F_{10}=100*(1+0.12)^{10}=3,105.85
$$

- Useless fact of the day is there was some fuckass senator named Roth, and that's where Roth IRAs come from.
- We do a little mathing
$$
F_{10}=2000(1.12)^{9} +2000(1.12)^{8}+\dots + 2000
$$
- If you're willing to actually do this math, you get $35,097
- The much, much easier math answer was to go find the F/A factor, which is then just $F_{10}=2000( F / A_{12^{\%},10})$ which is then 35,097
- I am going insane. Why is it ten and not nine? If this gets asked one more *god da-*
	- Spencer has made the excellent suggestion to make this a drinking game.
		- Rules are silly questions that we've already covered. 
			- Current tally: 5
- "Lots of people are going to die in this class"
- Let's say I got a thousand dollar annuity a year for the next four years, how much can my man cash now hook me up with?
	- Solving for $P_{o}$, which is $P_{o}=1000(P/F_{12,1})+1000(P/F_{12,2})+1000(P/F_{12,3})+1000(P/F_{12,4})$
		- Plug, chug, make bob your uncle, you get some number of $3,073
	- Wow, we sure did just have to do a bunch of calculations, sure would be a shame if there were some kind of P/A factor we could use
		- Wow.
		- $P_{o}=1000 (P/A_{12\%,4}=$ $3,073, which, wowee zowie, same number.
			- If you add those P/F factors together, you get the P/A factor.
- Actually, get fucked, you get 1000 a year *after* four years, so in years 5 through fifteen you get a 1000 a year, we're still at 12% annual interest rate, how much is our boy wentworth paying us?
	- $P_{o}=$ $1000 (P/A<sub>12%,11</sub>)(P/F<sub>12%,4</sub>)
		- Dimensional analysis just shit itself.
	- Subtraction method is a thing that exists and Pederson hates it. Honestly? Me too. 
		- You could act like you had fifteen years of cash flow, and then subtract the cash flow that doesn't really exist. I thought I hated this, and then I saw the true horrors mankind was capable of.
	- You could also go F/A value, and then P/F out of fifteen.
	- Look man I ain't doin recursion for figuring out the value of an annuity.
		- Pederson calls it the waterfall and also hates it. Me too.
		- These are the horrors in question.
	- The final answer is $3773 and a bit of loose change. *Rough.*
##### Alright, house time
- We've done it. It's ten years later. I'm thirty. My back still hurts. And I have $100,000.
- Sally Saleswoman is trying to sell a house for $500,000.
	- The bank is willing to cover you $400,000, in exchange for a 7% monthly rate compounded for 30 years.
		- The bank, of note, just gives Sally the $400,000, since they don't trust you that much.
			- The bank, also of note, owns your house until you pay it off.
				- At which point the government really kinda sorta owns it.
	- What do we know?
		- P is 400,000
		- F is 0
		- n is 360 months
		- i is 0.5833% 
		- Some A exists.
	- Alright, so we're doin it
		- A = 400,000 (A/P<sub>.5833%,360</sub>)
		- We get a mortage payment of $2,661.21
	- Horrifying answer as to "how much have I paid on this house in total" is approximately 1.058 million shmeckels
		- If we discount it, it's actually fairly reasonable
		- And the value of the house went up! I can't stop winning!
----

$$
A=FV * \frac{i}{(1+i)^{n}-1}
$$
$$
A=6907 * \frac{0.1}{(1.1)^{10}-1}=433.38
$$
