#notes #econ #ebgn321

### Helwig Pitch
- He teaches the other two sections.
- Take it post spring break, do 2/3, end in may, then finish the three weeks in italy right after school ends. 
### The rest of the housekeeping and other shenanigans
- Pederson is mostly an oil and gas economics kinda guy, but it's relevant regardless, yada yada.
- Literally fucking everything is on campus because email info for assignments are awful. Based take, tbh.
- The fucking family professor dynasty is god damn insane. Stermole 1 in like 1963, Stermole 2 in like the 80s, Pederson married Stermole 2's daughter and is now part of the dynasty. Actually crazy.
- Each exam is worth progressively more points because the averages tend to get better, which is fascinating.
	- Exam 1 is 100, Exam 2 is 125, Exam 3 is 150.
- First exam is in person and the remaining two are online.
- The reason the exams become online is because they want this class to be useful, which means you'll *have a computer*
- There's only really four questions we can get asked on a test, problem is there's like ten different fucked up ways to get asked said question.
- If you turn your homework in by Wednesday instead of the Friday that it's due, you get three extra credit points, neato.
##### Bigger number better investment

## Alright anyways real content time
### Investment Analysis
- Economic Analysis and Financial Analysis are very much not the same thing
- Intangible analysis includes a bunch of other things
	- Environmental, safety, social, and just for funsises pet projects
		- Mining companies do all kinds of things for safety or social reasons 
### The incredible power of compound interest
- Measuring the different rates of returns of different investments
	- Inflation from 1928 to now is around seventeen bucks, so that's your goal to beat
		- Investing in the US government is pretty steady - 1 year treasury bills is like 24 bucks, us bonds are ~118
	- Fun fact, bonds look like stocks now, which started when we went off the gold standard under Nixon (and some other shenanigans, including the oil embargo)
	- Now, the good stuff starts when you get into the stock market
		- S&P 500 is nearly 12,000 bucks, which is pretty solid
### Compound Interest Variables
- P = present sum of money (single cash flow) {Also referred to as PV, present value}
- F = future sum of money (single cash flow) {Also referred to as FV, future value, FW}
- A = uniform series of money (multiple cash flows) { Related to uniform series}
- n = Number of compounding periods (days, months, years, etc.)
- i = Period compound interest rate (must correlate with "n")
- i* = Investor's minimum rate of return
#### Some example working
- $F=p(1+i)^{n}$
- So if you started with 100, you'd get a 10% return, get 110, get another 10%, get 121, etc, etc
- So if you had a problem statement, like, say
	- Calculate the future worth that $1000 today will have six years from now if interest is 10% per year compounded annually.
	- He's really in favor of time diagrams, I don't wanna draw one rn.
	- Math is just 1000*(1.1)^6
- Generally use common sense when it comes to rounding values. Be reasonable.
- We're generally going to get table values, especially for the first test
- It's fairly possible to flip the equation around to get the present value from a theoretical future value, where if we have $P=F\left[ \frac{1}{(1+i)^{n}} \right]$, and this is useful for figuring out "if I want a future value of {x}," how much do I have to throw it in?
- or you can use the table and just smack it in and then it's $P=F\left( \frac{P}{F_{10\%,6}} \right)$ 