#notes #econ #ebgn321
### Alright had a phone call time to backdate fifteen minutes of notes
- Corporate tax returns are filed at the corporate levels, when you're working on projects companies aggregate them all together - one project might have $-100 of taxable income, a second project might have $300 of actual taxable income, which sounds an awful lot like $200 of taxable income overall. 
- If you're standalone, the government isn't going to write you a merry christmas check if you have losses, you get to loss forward that to cover some of your taxes with an 80% limit, losses can be moved forward for up to twenty years
- Corporate losses exist, we won't be dealing with it.

### Tax Credits
- Tax credits represent a dollar for dollar reduction in taxes at the federal/state level. A dollar of tax credit saves you.. a dollar of taxes!
	- Tax credits can be based on investments, production related to investments, number of children, age, housing, all kinds of things
	- Most credits reduce income tax, but some reduce other taxes
	- Some tax credits are refundable, which actually just means that they slide you cold hard cash
- Tax credits reduce the basis for DD&A, you can't double dip on tax credits and depreciation.

#### What flavors of tax credit do we have?

###### R&D Credits
- 14% on *additional* R&D expenditure, so it's however much you spent over the previous three year average on R&D, as of 2016 it can be used against payroll taxes
###### General Business Credit
- All fuckin' kinds of em, like work opportunity, low income housing, carpon capture, all kinds of things
	- Carbon capture has been sitting on the books for years, but somehow this tax credit was originally written for landowners and not for oil and gas companies, which was fucked up and weird and has since been changed.
		- CO2 is at $85/tonne stored, refundable for tax exempt entities, etc
###### Solar Tax Credit
- 30% for individual and commerical projects, OBBB squished it from 2027 down to uh.. *checks watch* next month? Jesus.
- Solar tax credits have made 33% of solar projects economically viable, which is crazy
- Solar stocks crashed after tax credits got shot

###### Wind Energy Tax Credit
- 30% investment tax credit by july, sick
###### Advanced Manufacturing, Mining, All Kinds of Things



