#notes #econ #ebgn321


## Housekeeping

#### Investment Game
- Basically just a free 150 points because exam one fucking sucked.
##### To-Dos
- Initial positions due next friday
	- Intermediate report due november 7th
		- "Report" is a very, *very* strong word to describe what that is
	- Final report due december 9th
- Quick disclaimer: this is NOT a diversified portfolio. this is NOT financial advice.
- We'll be buying:
	- A long position
		- This is what you think of when you hear "buying a stock," you buy low, you sell high, it's a stock.
			- Fun little note, if you buy for $100, and sell for $175, you're only taxed on $75 - the $100 is a "deduction"
		- You can lose 100% of your investment... but no more!
	- A short position
		- This is basically a stock-based loan with your broker
		- You receive shares from your broker, sell em into the market, then buy the shares you sold back (for hopefully a lower price), and then return shares to your broker
		- You profit on the spread between when you first sold it and when you bought it back it
		- "Sell high, buy back low"
		- You can lose a theoretically infinite amount of money, because the stock price could just go up! And up! And maybe up some more!
- PE - Price to Earning Ratio
	- This is share price over earnings, and the gap between them is fascinating
- You need to make reports and graphs for every stock you buy so like don't diversify. You could go for like ten different companies. You'd then need to make ten different graphs.
	- Call Option
		- Buying the *right* to buy a stock in the future for a specific price (and you pay a premium)
		- Basically, if you say a stock is going to be $110, even if its price *starts* to go in that direction, you can make a whole ton of money on it
		- CHANGE THE DATE ON YOUR CALL OPTIONS. 
	- Put option
		- Gives you the right to sell a share for a price at a certain time, and you pay a premium on that
		- This is basically a short, you make money when the stock price goes down
	- Future contract
		- I want to sell you something in the future, what do we have to agree on?
			- What we're buying, when we're buying it, contract guaranteeing, and a down payment
				- In financies, these are called commodity & units, when, contract held @ CME, and margin payment