#notes #econ #ebgn321

### Review/Overview/Whatever is Happening Here
- Chapter 4 we're wizards at *making* economic decisions
	- If we have mutually exclusive income analysis, we have our questions and we can get our answers
		- Do your individual economics, check if they're both bad projects
			- If they're good projects, do an incremental analysis to get ROR, PVR, GROR, the whole shebang
		- For making your incremental do Larger - Smaller, because you end up with some shenanigans like revenue before cost, 
	- Mutually exclusive service analysis, you can either do smallest PWC or do your elimination bracket of incrementals and get NPVs and whatever.
		- Just do the damn PWC if you can choose. Easiest answer. Job done.
	- If you have *non* mutually exclusive projects, you gotta rank 'em, and you do that by either PVR or B/C ratio
		- You *can* rank with GROR, but it only really makes sense is the FW profit has to be in the same year
	- 
- Chapter 5 is going to be "hold on a second, what do the dollars we're decision making with actually look like," but that's what we in the business call a problem for later

## Speaking of Chapter 5
- "I love inflation" - Pederson
- So, types of dollars and interest rates utilized in economic evaluations
- Dollars with the effects of inflation are "escalated dollars" in the textbook, you also hear "nominal dollars" quite a lot out in the world
- If you shoot the effects of inflation out back, you get constant dollars
- If you're working in escalated *OR* constant dollars, you'll get the same NPV and results as long as your assumptions are the same
	- Quick question, hoss - if escalated/vs constant doesn't matter, why do I give a fuck?
		- What if the assumptions aren't the same? And we don't have apples and apples?
- What even *is* inflation, anyway? I didn't think this was a balloon class.
	- Inflation is "a persistent rise in the prices of a consumer price index basket of goods, services, and commodities that is not offset by increased productivity" - that.... says something, for sure. Definitely means something.
	- The fed, however, defines inflation as "the result of too many dollars chasing too few goods," which is a much more reasonable definition 
	- Some people refer to inflation as the "hidden tax," which is why he likes it so much. See the note on Chapter Seven below.
- Chapter Seven is taxes and I don't really trust anyone this excited to talk about taxes.
#### The Consumer Price Index (Which is inflation)
- Ask people to fill out a survey of everything you buy for the next two weeks
	- This feels fake.
		- First of all, Pederson meets like 2500 people a year and, statistically, should've ran into somebody who's filled out one of these surveys by now
		- Honest to god, if we got this survey, pretty good odds that we forget and rush fill it out the day it's due. Human nature.
- Core inflation is inflation without food and energy
- Good news: from 2014 to 2024, the Mines average salary went from $66,394 to $81,400
	- Bad news: inflation went up more. Eat shit and die. Salary really went down like -0.8% 
- Whole bunch of talk about escalation and i*, Fisher's Rule is what pops out.
	- Ol' Fisher said in approximately 1929, when the stock market was stocking, that "the stock market will never go down." He, uh, has been a bit discredited.
- Alright, now for the real work
- Basically, the short summary is you do an extra discount using the inflation rate
- 