#notes #cs200 #compsci


### Data and Memory (and other such fun things)
- Lab 1A is due on Wednesday, other such fun things

#### Quick review clickers
- Benefits of compiling
	- Executes faster (we already made the machine code, so it's faster to just run)
	- Detect errors sooner
		- Including syntax checking, which is cute

#### Turing machines
- Given infinite time and memory, if a machine has the following features:
	1. Sequence
	2. Fuck if we know
	3. Fuck if we know
	4. Output
	5. Fuck if we know
	6. Fuck if we know
- It can solve any mathematical problem
	- and is thus Turing complete (which most languages are)
- Abstraction
	- We don't actually care what's inside something as long as it works (which applies both to hardware and functions)
		- But *somewhere* in that hardware is a chunk of memory to do things with
#### Primitive Data Types
- Integers, big whole numbers
- Float/double, which are decimal numbers
	- Double is twice as big as a float
	- Integers and floats are both 32 bits, doubles are 64
		- If you want a decimal to only occupy 32 bits, you mark it with an f (ie `3.92f`)
			- A wholeass double would just be 3.92
- char 
	- A single character, with any letter or number, ie `'a'` or `'6'`
- bool
	- True or false! (really 1 or 0)
- char and bool are both stored in one byte, which is neat

### math review
- cpp cares about the data types you use - ie, if you have two integers, and say `11/3`, you're going to get 3, because you're doing integer division
- Otherwise, generally PEMDAS holds.

#### variables and memory
- Identifiers point to somewhere in memory where the value is stored
- When you reference said variable, you go to the point in memory said address is pointing to


| Data Type | Size              | Range  |                                  |
| --------- | ----------------- | ------ | -------------------------------- |
| bool      | 8 bits / 1 byte*  | 0 to 1 | 0 to 1                           |
| char      | 8 bits / 1 byte   | -      | -128 to +127                     |
| int       | 32 bits / 4 bytes |        | -2,147,483,648 to +2,147,483,647 |
| float     | 32 bits / 4 bytes |        | ~7 digits precision              |
| double    | 64 bits / 8 bytes |        | ~16 digits precision             |
* * you technically only need one bit for a boolean

| Data Type     | Size              | Range                   |                                                         |
| ------------- | ----------------- | ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| short int     | 16 bits / 2bytes  | -2^15 to +2^15-1        | -32,678 to 32,677                                       |
| int           | 32 bits / 4 bytes | $-2^{31}$ to $2^{31}-1$ | -2,147,483,648 to +2,147,483,647                        |
| long int      | 32 bits / 4 bytes | $-2^{31}$ to $2^{31}-1$ | -2,147,483,648 to +2,147,483,647                        |
| long long int | 64 bits / 8 bytes | $-2^{63}$ to $2^{63}-1$ | -9,223,372,036,854,775,808 to 9,223,372,036,854,775,807 |
- How do we store these things?
	- Positives are as normal
		- ie, seven is 0000111
	- Negatives use two's complement
		- Absolute value, invert bits, slap a 1 on
			- So to get 6, you have 0110, inverts to 1001, slap a 1 on so you get 1010
- Why do we bother with such shenanigans?
	- It's easier for the computer if subtraction literally doesn't exist
		- So instead of doing sign/value (which, honestly, is what I thought was happening)
- What's going on with floats?
	- They have a sign, mantissa, and exponent
	- So writing 12.375
		- We have positive as our sign
		- the 12 part is just 1100
			- Converting the 0.375 \*2 goes to 0.75, pull out the 0, you get 0 1/2 
			- 0.75 \*2 gives you 1.5 1 1/4
			- Blah blah blah lots of math
		- 100.011 is that decimal
			- So we move "binary places" to get scientific notation, 1.00011 $*2^{3(011)}$
	- I hopefully will never, ever need to know this
- What the fuck actually matters? The DATA TYPE.
- Variables are in memory as binary
- Why do we care?
	- Integer/Integer gives you an integer
	- Double/double gives you animal style (actually, a double)
	- Double/int gives you a double (int is promoted. good job, integer)
- Casting! It exists! We didn't really talk about it
- 