#notes #math225 #math 

In homogenous equations, 
$$
a_{2}y''+a_{1}'+a_{0}y=f(x)
$$
- We will limit $f(x)$ to be what MUC works with, so exponentials, polynomials, sines and cosines, and combinations of those
- The general solution is 
$$
y=y_{c}(x)+y_{p}(x)
$$
Test dummy line
$$
y=\underbrace{ c_{1}y_{1}(x)+c_{2}y_{2}(x) }_{ \text{Complementary term} } + y_{p}(x) 
$$
----
## Example already!
$$
y''+4y'-2y = 2x^{2}-3x+6
$$

- First things first, ~~I'm gonna eat your brains~~ solve the homogeneous equation
$$
y''+4y'-2y=0
$$
$$
m^{2}+4m-2=0
$$
$$
m = -\frac{4\pm \sqrt{ 16+8 }}{2}= -\frac{4\pm \sqrt{ 24 }}{2}= -2 \pm \sqrt{ 6 }
$$
$$
y_{c}=c_{1}e^{(-2+\sqrt{ 6 })x}+c_{2}e^{(-2-\sqrt{ 6 })x}
$$
- Now for the fun part (the fart, if you will) - we gotta actually do muc<sub>which I really don't like</sub> for the particular solution.
$$
y_{p}=Ax^{2}+Bx+C
$$
- We, also, remember, need to check if our guess occurs in $y_{c}$
- We plug the guess into the ODE to get equations for our coefficients A,B, and C.
$$
y_{p}'=2Ax+B, y_{p}''=2A
$$
- So you plug back in, aaaand you get
$$
2A+4(2Ax+B)-2(Ax^{2}+Bx+C)=2x^{2}-3x+6
$$
$$
2A+8Ax + 4B - 2Ax^{2}+2Bx+2C=2x^{2}-3x+6
$$
$$
-2A=2, A = -1
$$
$$
8A+2B=-3
$$
$$
-8-2B = -3, \ \ \ 2B = 5, B = -2.5
$$
$$
2A + 4B +2C = 6
$$
$$
-2 -10 +2C = 6, -18=2C, C = -9
$$
- Having determined the undetermined coefficients, we have 
$$
y = y_{c}+y_{p} = c_{1}e^{(-2+\sqrt{ 6) })x}+c_{2}e^{(-2-\sqrt{ 6 })x}-x^{2}-\frac{5}{2}x-9
$$
## And now for something completely different (oscillations)
- Spring Force, governed by Hooke's Law, says that the restoring force is proportional to the displacement and some $k$ constant. Or, in short, 
$$
F = -kx
$$
- If you hang a spring from the ceiling, it has where it wants to be (distance $\ell$), attach another weight, there'll be some new distance (distance $s$)
	- That new distance is in equilibrium, or balanced, or not moving, etc, where $mg=ks$
- If you then stretch the spring some distance $x$ from that position, we want to know what the motion of the mass looks like.
- In this particular case, it's given by Newton's Second Law, which says $m\ddot{x}=-kx-\overbrace{ ks+mg }^{ \text{This is zero.} }$
	- Motion only depends on how far it's stretched from the new equilibrium position.
- We now have $m\ddot{x}+kx=0$
	- Spring constant and mass are both constants, so this is just a second order, homogeneous differential equation.
		- This is what the characteristic equation is *built* for.
			- On that note - we're going to use $r$ for the characteristic equation while we're in spring land, because, y'know, $m$ is a character we're already using for mass.
	- Strictly speaking, $\ddot{x} + \frac{k}{m}x=0$
$$
r^{2}+\frac{k}{m}=0
$$
- This has roots of $r = \pm \sqrt{ \frac{k}{m} }i$
	- Those sure look like complex conjugates to me.
- Our solution then becomes
$$
x = c_{1} \cos\left( \sqrt{ \frac{k}{m} }t \right)+ c_{2}\sin\left( \sqrt{ \frac{k}{m} }t \right)
$$
- We define $\omega_{o}=\sqrt{ \frac{k}{m} }$
	- Aaaaaand we getting into what that actually means later. 

---
#### unrelated to diffEq toDo - make a new snippet for pm instead of +-