#notes #math225 #math 

### general housekeeping
- Dr. Hurt
- Local Mockheed Lartin worker
- Office hours are Engineering Annex 132 MWF from 3:00 to 4:00, or by appointment
- Strictly speaking the only requirement is like calc 2, the only thing we need from calc 3 is partials, which, w/e
- WebAssigns are generally due Monday, with worksheets due Wednesday

## "Things we're going to need to know how to do" 
- I just would like to note 14 minutes to content.
- Integration!
	- I mean, huge shocker there.
	- This is not a course on integration, so we aren't going to go super crazy, but there are a few things we need to know
	- u-sub comes up a good bit
		- As an example, $\int \frac{dx}{x+5}$, if we were to be complete and use the whole thing, we'd say $u=x+5$, which makes $du=dx$, so then the integral is just $\int \frac{du}{u}=\ln(|u|)$ <sub>that absolute value is kind of a pain</sub> $+C$, so then you sub back out and it's just $\ln(|x+5|)+C$, and we're so good.
		- Versions of the integral $\int \sin(2\pi \nu x + \phi)dx$
			- That's a $\nu$ nu smuggled in there, which tends to be frequency in physics, and $\phi$ is a phase shift, as a physicist writes things
				- Sixteen minutes for me to learn a new greek letter.
			- You'd let $u=2\pi\nu x + \phi$, where then $du=2\pi \nu dx$ 
			- Which, if you actually did your integral, becomes $-\frac{1}{2\pi\nu}\cos(2\pi\nu x + \phi)$ 
	- Also comes up a good bit is integration by parts
		- Y'know, for a course not on integration, we are hitting the highlights.
		- Example integral of $\int xe^{x}dx$ 
			- In this case, let $u=x$ and $dv=e^{x}dx$ 
				- With those, $du=dx$, and $v=e^{x}$ 
		- Integration by parts just says that $uv - \int v du = xe^{x}- \int e^{x}dx$, which is then $xe^{x}-e^{x}+C_{1}$ 
	- We don't really need trig sub! Yippee!
	- This is not a technique, but useful regardless
		- $\int \frac{dx}{x^{2}+a^{2}}$ 
			- Strictly speaking, you should probably do a tangent substitution here. It's perfectly chill if you just look then up in an integral table. 
		- So like, this one becomes $\frac{1}{a}\tan^{-1}(\frac{x}{a})+C_{1}$ 
- Not really integration, so new heading - Partial fractions!
	- Where you decompose fraction functions and get quirky with it.
	- There are a couple different cases that pop up, such as:
		1. Simple Linear Factors
			- $\frac{1}{x^{2}-1}$ can be pretty easily factored into $\frac{1}{(x+1)(x-1)}$, which you would then decompose into $\frac{A}{x+1}+\frac{B}{x-1}$ 
			- So you do a little multiplication to get $\frac{1}{(x+1)(x-1)}= \frac{A(x-1)}{(x+1)(x-1)}+\frac{B(x+1)}{(x+1)(x-1)}=\frac{Ax-A+Bx+B}{(x-1)(x+1)}$
			- We want to make an always true expression, so $Ax-A+Bx+B=1$ has to always be true, so get grouping by powers of x
				- $A+B=0$
				- $B-A = 1$ 
				- Which then gives that $B= \frac{1}{2}$ and $A= \frac{-1}{2}$	  
			- So fully written out this becomes $\frac{1}{x^{2}-1}= \frac{-1}{2}* \frac{1}{x+1}+ \frac{1}{2}* \frac{1}{x-1}$ 
		2. Repeated Factors
			- This gives us factors raised to some power, generally of the form $(x-r)^{n}$
			- The partial fraction decomposition includes a separate term for each power of the repeated term
			- An example being $\frac{1}{x^{2}(x+1)}$ 
				- In this case, $x^{2}$ is our repeated, which does fit the general form - $r$ is just 0 and $n$ is 2.
				- We're going to have one term that's $\frac{A}{x}+ \frac{B}{x^{2}}+ \frac{C}{x+1}$ 
				- Exact same process as before, just longer, so $$\frac{Ax(x+1)+B(x+1)+Cx^{2}}{x^{2}(x+1)}$$
				- Which then becomes $Ax^{2}+Ax +Bx +B +Cx^{2}$ 
				- Grouping our terms like before
					- $A+C=0$
					- $A+B=0$
					- $B=1$
					- Which, you can work your way back, $A=-1$, then then makes $C=1$
		3. You run into one last type - Irreducible Quadratics
			- With something like $\frac{1}{x(x^{2}+1)}$ 
			- Which then produces $\frac{A}{x}+ \frac{Bx+C}{x^{2}+1}$ 
			- 