#notes #math225 #math 

### more on portraits of phase
- Last time we had $\frac{dP}{dt}=P(1-P)$, which was the logistic equation, or put in a more general form with parameters, we have $\frac{dP}{dt}=P(a-bP)$
	- We got two critical points! And that's it! $P=0$, and $P=\frac{a}{b}$ 
		- Stuff is happening between the points, you can do the pos/neg logic
			- If you start with something like $P <0$ or $bP < 0$, and multiply by $-1$, the inequality flips (and picks up an equal? right? not mentioned but I swear that happens)
				- $-p >0$
				- $-bP > 0$

## "now let's actually learn how to solve a differential equation"

## Separable Equations
- If the function $f(x,y)$ in $\frac{dy}{dx}=f(x,y)$ can be written as $f(x,y)$ as some $g(x)*h(y)$, we call this separable
- We can then write $\frac{dy}{dx}= g(x)*h(y)$, or could rearrange into a vibe like $\frac{dy}{h(y)}=g(x)dx$, and from there you can just smack an $\int$ on and go wild.
- The solution just kind of pops out from doing the integrals of like $\int \frac{dy}{h(y)}=\int g(x)dx$ 
- For instance, $\frac{dy}{dx}= xy$ is perfectly separable
	- $\frac{dy}{dx}= \cos(xy)$ is not happily separable. 
	- $\frac{dy}{dx}=f(x)$ is perfectly separable! The $y$ component is just $*1$, but that doesn't mean it's not separable
#### example time
$$\frac{dy}{dx}= (x+1)^{2}$$
- This sure looks separable to me.
$$dy = (x+1)^{2}dx$$
- Once rearranged, go about integrating both sides
$$y +c_{1}= \frac{(x+1)^{3}}{3}+c_{2}$$
$$y =  \frac{(x+1)^{3}}{3}+ (c_{2}- c_{1})= \frac{(x+1)^{3}}{3}+c_{3}$$
- Constant minus a constant is still...... some constant. 
#### anotha one
$$\frac{dy}{dx}= y$$ $$\frac{dy}{y}= dx$$
$$\int \frac{dy}{y}= \int dx$$
$$\ln(|y|) = x+c_{3}$$
- This is an implicit solution because $y$ is inside some function. An *explicit* solution would have $y=g(x)$ 
	- so like, exponentiate both sides, do $$e^{\ln|y|}=e^{x+c_{1}}, \text{ which is } |y| = e^{c_{1}} e^{x}$$
	- Oh hey, that's a constant out front, so $|y| = c_{2}e^{x}$ 
		- Really, if we're being honest, the absolute value is just the *possibility* that $y$ is $-y$ if it's negative, and $-y$ is really just $y$ with a constant attached, so we can suction all the constants into the constant, leaving $y=c_{3}e^{x}$ 

#### y'know do it again
- Our good friend the logistic equation, $\frac{dP}{dt}= P(1-P)$, is separable
- So $\int \frac{dP}{P(1-P)} = \int dT$
$$\frac{1}{P(1-P)}= \frac{A}{P}+ \frac{B}{1-P}$$
$$1 = A-AP +BP$$
So group like powers, solve, get a little jiggy with it
$$\frac{1}{P}+ \frac{1}{1-P} $$
- So if we hop back to our integrals we end up with
$$\int \frac{dP}{P}+ \int \frac{dP}{1-P}= t+c_{1}$$
$$\ln|P| - \ln| 1-P| = t+c_{1}$$
$$\ln |\frac{P}{1-P}|= t+c_{1}$$
- Quite unfortunately our $P$ appears to be wrapped up quite completely inside that natural log, so if we exponentiate both sides
$$|\frac{P}{1-P}| = c_{2}e^{t}$$
- Siphon the absolute value into the constant, leaving 
$$\frac{P}{1-P}= c_{3}e^{t}$$
$$P = c_{3}e^{t}- c_{3}Pe^{t}$$
- Do some more algebra and a little factors
$$P = \frac{c_{3}e^{t}}{1+ c_{3}e^{t}}$$
- If you really wanted to keep going and doing more algebra, you could make this into $$P = \frac{1}{1+c_{4}e^{-t }}$$

