#notes #math225 #math 

## Previously talking about Simple Harmonic Motion
- Also known as free undamped motion
	- Essentially, there's no driving force
		- The alternative being driven motion, which we'll get to soon™
	- Undamped means there's no friction, resistance, etc.
		- No term with $-\dot{x}$, which is the next thing we're going to deal with.
- Our simple equation was $\ddot{x}+\frac{k}{m}x=0$
	- Which then had the simple answer of $x(t)=c_{1}\cos(\omega_{o}t)+c_{2}\sin(\omega_{o}t)$
		- $\omega_{o}=\sqrt{ \frac{k}{m} }\equiv$ natural angular frequency
			- Units of rad/s, just for record's sake
				- Radians are really unitless if you get into it, so this is really just $\frac{1}{s}$ or $s ^{-1}$
		- $\nu = \frac{\omega}{2\pi}\equiv$frequency, which like really really has units of $\frac{1}{s}$, or... {physics drumroll} Hertz
		- $P | T = \frac{1}{\nu}\equiv$ Period, which is $\frac{1}{\text{frequency}}$, which is the time it takes to undergo one full cycle.
## text example 5.1.3
- A mass weighing 24lb hanging from a spring and stretches it 4in. If it is released from a point 3in above the equilibrium position, what is the equation of motion?
	- ie, what is $x(t)$
	- We were in fact given a force of 24lb, so we gotta use the conversion $F=mg$ where $g=32\text{ ft}\cdot \text{s}^{-2}$
		- Our whole book apparently uses english units, which is awful.
		- $m=\frac{24\text{lb}}{32\text{ ft}\cdot \text{s}^{-2}}= \frac{3}{4}\text{lb}*\text{ft}^{-1}\cdot \text{s}^{2}=2 \text{ slug}$
		- We also need the spring constant, which we can derive from Hooke's Law, and pops out to be $72 \text{ lb}\cdot \text{ft}^{-1}$
	- So, plugging all of our solving in
$$
x(t) = c_{1} \cos(\omega_{o}t)+c_{2}\sin(\omega_{o}t)
$$
$$
\omega_{o}=\sqrt{ \frac{k}{m} }=\sqrt{ \frac{72}{\frac{3}{4}} }=\sqrt{ 96 } \text{ s}^{-1}
$$
$$
=c_{1}\cos(\sqrt{ 96 }t)+c_{2}\sin(\sqrt{ 96 }t)
$$
- Now, we were given some initial conditions, noticeably that we start at rest 3in above equilibrium
	- Generally the way the book and such writes solutions is such that down is positive.
	- This tells us that $\dot{x}(0)=0$, and that $x(0)=-3in=- \frac{1}{4}ft$
	- After plugging these in, we get $x(t)=-\frac{1}{4}ft\cos(\sqrt{ 96 }t)$
### Damped Motion
- Now we're dunking our poor spring into a pool of viscous liquid, and it's going to try and oscillate and have to move fluid out of the way.
- So now we'll include a damping term which is proportional to velocity and opposes the motion.
$$
m\ddot{x}=\overbrace{ -kx }^{ \text{Hooke's Law} }-\underbrace{ \beta }_{ \text{Resistance} } \dot{x}
$$
	- That $\beta$ resistance constant is constant for a given object in a given medium, particularly in this not real physics class. It's dependent on like, geometry, viscosity, lots of things we don't care about
$$
m\ddot{x}+\beta\dot{x}+kx=0
$$
$$
\ddot{x}+\frac{\beta}{m} \dot{x}+\frac{k}{m}x=0
$$
- Soooo, we characteristic equation that bad boy
$$
r^{2}+\frac{\beta}{m}r+\frac{k}{m}=0
$$
$$
r= \frac{-\frac{\beta}{m}\pm \sqrt{ \frac{\beta^{2}}{m^{2}}-\frac{4k}{m} }}{2}
$$
$$
r = -\frac{\frac{\beta}{m}\pm \sqrt{ \frac{\beta^{2}-4km}{m^{2}} }}{2}
$$
$$
r= \frac{-\beta \pm \sqrt{ \beta^{2}-4km }}{2m}
$$
- Dynamics will depend on the sign of $\beta^{2}-4km$
	- We've got a couple of cases for that, actually
		1. If $\beta^{2}-4km>0$ The system is overdamped 
			- This means we have two real, distinct roots
			- The mass returns smoothly and exponentially to equilibrium without oscillating
		2. If $\beta^{2}-4km=0$, The system is critically damped
			- This has a repeated real root
				- General solution of the form $x(t) = c_{1}e^{(-\beta/2m)t}+c_{2}te^{-(\beta/2m)t}$
			- Also doesn't oscillate (those are just decaying exponentials sitting up there), but this gets us back to equilibrium real quick.
			- The graphs of case 1 and case 2 look pretty darn similar.
		3. $\beta^{2}-4km <0$ is underdamped
			- This one then looks like $x(t) = e^{(-\beta/2m)t}[c_{1}\cos(\sqrt{ 4km-\beta^{2} }t)+c_{2}\sin(\sqrt{ 4km-\beta^{2} }t)]$  