 #edns291  #design 

----

1. Nothing seems to have gotten worse, I improved by a mark in some of the presenting skills, because I feel like I generally did a good job through this semester with my presentations, especially with this most recent integration presentation, given quite how poorly some of this did. 
2. I didn't make a whole lot of progress towards working with metal, or making formal diagrams - I did do a better job of documenting my process throughout and keeping a running record of trials and experiments and such, which I feel was improvement in that vein. I did get a bit of experience actually "running the numbers" - both for the electrical and code sides of the last two projects, I actually ran the numbers of the memory usage, on the amperage of different components, which was a bit of new experience, even though I already knew how to do it, which was definitely interesting. 
3. Three
	1.  **_Design_** solutions that enhance the user experience through solicitation and appropriate use of feedback. 
		1. I feel like I did a solid job of this and in working along with this - I did user trials and actually solicited feedback that I used, I took feedback from my various projects throughout the year, I consulted with SME with regards to certain things, so on and so forth. Solid "B," if i were to grade myself. I didn't do anything crazy, but it went pretty well.
	2. **_Prototype_** to explore ideas and test concepts, while making iterative data-driven design decisions.
		1. Prototyping was something I did *really* well, if I were to say. All of my projects I worked on throughout the semester had several layers of prototyping, in which iterative design decisions were made which contributed to future prototypes. Solid A - it's something I feel I did really, really well.
	3. **_Create_** artifacts across expansive fabrication techniques, design iterations, and appropriate levels of fidelity.
		1. All of this is something I feel went really well. My automata could've been better for a final polished final product, and I could've done more work for that project, but I was trying my best to teach my group members as I was going instead of just saying "I'm doing this, deal with it," which I don't regret and I feel was a correct decision. Again, I would give myself an A - I feel like this went really well. 
	4. **_Communicate_** with others and/ or present ideas and solutions in ways appropriate for the occasion and audience.
		1. Also went beautifully! If I felt dicey about any of my projects, I felt wonderfully about all of my presentations -  if anything about the projects was "bad," we did a really good job talking about what went wrong and how our process got to where we were, and all of the decisions that we made in order to reach that point. Highest of A's, especially relative to anything else. 
4. Four
	1. My general story through this class was essentially going through the exact same process four times - which sounds a bit silly, given that projects three and four were essentially the same, but was what happened regardless. This flow was going and finding some kind of idea, whiteboarding and blueprinting what the idea was supposed to look like, and going from there into individual little tasks within my group of making what we had planned a reality. This was a lot of "parallel" group work - me and Jacksyn worked on our own independent sections for the intersection presentation, my Automata was actually fairly together, but we still took individual parts of it that we would work on, and then the chess project was aggressively split down lines of what each of our subsystems were and getting them to work. The course essentially followed the path of what my high school's Project Lead the Way course covered in three years in the course of a semester - starting more with design communication, into physical prototyping, into microcontrollers - so I had a lot of experience with all of the areas we were working in, because I had spent he last several years spending a whole year working on similar topics, as opposed to just a few weeks. 
5. One "negative" I have of the course, which may be a more personal problem, is I feel that this was a lot of using existing skills and applying them, as opposed to learning new ones. I should've tried to push the bounds of complexity that I was working in more, but in order to do that I would've had to pair with group members that exclusively had a similar body of work and experience to myself in order for us all to be actually pushing our boundaries, which I feel would've been a poor move. I got to work a lot with and meet my fellow classmates and Design Engineers and get to work with them, but figuring out some way to even out the curve of applying existing skills vs learning new ones would be my single largest potential improvement to the course. 

