#notes #meche  #megn212

### still going over that handout from before
- do remember you can go do some shenanigans with x,y,z, splitting it apart, all those shenanigans, orrrrr
- you can just make a resultant force vector and a resultant moment vector, derive the position vector $\vec{r}$, 
	- So our $\vec{r}$ is going to be $1.25 \hat{\imath} +0.5 \hat{j} + 0\hat{k}$
	- And our force is just being given to us, and is $\vec{F}=0 \hat{i} + 30\hat{j} - 50\hat{k}$ 
	- $\vec{F}_{r}+\vec{F}=0$
	- $\vec{F}_{R} = -30\hat{j}+50\hat{k}$
	- $\vec{M}_{R}+70\hat{i} +\vec{r}\times \vec{F}=\vec{0}$
	- $$
\begin{vmatrix}
\hat{i} & \hat{j} & \hat{k} \\
1.25 & 0.5 & 0 \\
0 & 30 & -50
\end{vmatrix}=(25)\hat{i} - 62.5\hat{j} - 37.5\hat{k}
$$$$
\vec{r}\times \vec{F} +70\hat{i} = -45\hat{i} -62.5\hat{j} - 37.5\hat{k}, Nm
$$
- The forces on the other side of the cut, for record's sakes, would just be all the opposites. Crazy how that works.

## Stress Shenanigans™
- We have some arbitrary body getting acted upon by stresses
	- generally makes sense to cut normal to an axis through your point of interest
- The formal definition of stress is "the intensity of the internal force acting on a specific area passing through a point"
	- Normal stress is then the intensity of the normal force to your plane, and we use sigma $\sigma$
	- Defined as $\sigma_{x}=\lim\limits_{ \Delta A\to 0} \frac{\Delta \vec{F}_{x}}{\Delta A}$
	- Or, in a less calc-y way, $\sigma=\frac{F}{A}$
		- And you can rearrange this at your leisure, so you can get such fun things as $F=\sigma*A$
	- Speaking of, I can smell a terrible scent of integral somewhere around here. It's just *waiting* to happen.
	- We display stress on a model by drawing it normal to the center of a given plane
- Shear stress is denoted with tau, $\tau$, and uses two subscripts $\tau_{xy}$
	- Derived by $\tau_{xy}=\lim\limits_{\Delta A \to 0} \frac{\Delta V_{xy}}{\Delta A}$ 
	- $\tau_{xy}$ is on the x plane in the y direction, and $\tau_{xz}$ also exists and is on the x plane in the z direction
		- You can extrapolate.
- There's only really three independent shear stresses, and they're otherwise all equal to one another in some way (ie $\tau_{xy}=\tau_{yx}$)
- There's also three normal stresses, $\nabla x, \nabla y, \nabla z$
- Scalars, vectors, stress and strain are all tensors, which means the amount of components needed to describe them is a power of three and are independent of the coordinate system in use
	- For instance, scalars are a zeroth order tensor, and require 1 component, vectors are first order and require three, stress is a second order tensor and requires nine.
		- This gets horrifying FAST.
$$
\begin{vmatrix}
\sigma_{x} & \tau_{xy} & \tau_{xz} \\
\tau_{yz} & \sigma_{y} & \tau_{yz} \\
\tau_{zx} & \tau_{xy} & \sigma_{z}
\end{vmatrix}
$$
- Stress is fully 3d, has six independent components, etc, however, we can ignore like half of that at any given point and it dramatically simplifies our problems.
	- If we're stretching a bar out, we can probably zero a face worth of stress, which then means you can zero another stress on a different face, and suddenly we're down to three unknowns. 
	- This is referred to as a plane stress
	- For instance, zeroing your $\sigma_{z}$ will leave you with $\sigma_{x},\sigma_{y},\tau_{xy}$
#### units for stress
- Metric unit is Pascal, Pa, which is $\frac{N}{m^{2}}$
	- We'll pretty often be in KPa or MPa, which are $10^{3}$ or $10^{6}$ respectively.
		- Gigapascals were also written on the board, or $10^{9}$
		- Fun bit is that megapascals work out to be $\frac{N}{mm^{2}}$, which is a neat way to directly calculate.
- FPS is psi, or $\frac{\text{lbf}}{in^{2}}$
	- Pretty often working in kips, which are in fact still 1000 lbf
	- ksi, kilopound per square inch, is $\frac{kip}{in^{2}}$
- Those units are apparently all on the equation sheet