#notes #meche  #megn212
### Creating a Tool
- You gotta do stuff by hand, but throughout this class you're going to be encouraged to build a tool.
	- First up, due next week, is vector form equations of equilibrium in software of your choice 
		- I might take up Mathcad.
			- "Set equal to" in mathcad is $:=$, "evaluate" is $=$
### Statics Review
- I know I already have statics notes, but, for pedantry's sake.
- Statics is $\sum F=0$ and $\sum M_{O}=0$, wowie, zipeee day.
- If we're only floating in the $x-y$ plane, we get split that $\sum F$ bit into $\sum F_{x}=0$ and $\sum F_{y}=0$
- In order to do statics, you need to fudge the everloving shit out of it and draw an idealized FBD.
	- Draw your thing we care about
	- Show all the external forces and moments, which *generally* includes applied loads, support reactions, and, very rarely, the weight of the body
- General rule of thumb, if you're preventing translation you get a force, preventing rotation you get a couple moment, big whoop, that's how supports work.
- Two force and three force members are still going to be a thing.
	- Three force members have to have either concurrent or parallel forces to work
#### Internal Forces
- Why do we care about internal forces? It's lowkey the entire point of this course!
	- Cuts to see internal forces are how we find out about stresses and strains within our various bits and bobs.
- Review is that you solve your thing, you know your forces, but you gotta be at equilibrium so the internal forces are going to balance your assorted supports.
- Sign convention, an internal moment deforms into a frowny face if it's negative and nice and smiley if it's positive.
	- Get absolutely god damn fucked if we move to 3d - we just work off positive coordinates.
- Loosey goosey notes for today because of a worksheet with examples that I was *not* willing to type out.
- 