#notes #hass111 #hass

Looking back over my original nature/humans/values essay, I don't really feel that my opinion on nature has changed at all - I already had a more flexible view on what "nature" was, but what I feel like I did get through this course was expanding the definition of what the other course concepts were to be as flexible of my view of nature. I considered nature to include the natural world, but also the way people act - now I consider "humans" both as people and their products - the Nazi Ethics was a great work for thinking about not only the humans, their nature, and their values behind something they create, but also thinking about how whatever they create, is, in a way, human too. My most significant change in my opinion on values is similar to what I talked about in my in-class reflection, regarding the flexibility of applying different values and schools of thought to novel problems. In my in-class discussion, I discussed how for my final paper, I knew from the very second that I started working on it that it would be an environmental justice problem, so I figured that most of the moral philosophies making arguments about how to just *live life* wouldn't necessarily apply to my specific problem. Writing this out - how in the world did the idea of life possibly *not* apply to making significant decisions about what to do with the environment? It seems absurd even thinking about it now, but many of the environmental justice decisions I considered could be simplified to making general ethical decisions. Choosing to invest in solar power whose construction makes life miserable for those right next to it, in exchange for powering a massive chunk of other people's homes would be a rather clear cut decision under utilitarianism, just to name a discrete example. 

Overall, I don't want to terribly retread what I've already talked about in my one-on-one and my big class discussion, but as a whole this class included a lot of ideas and lessons that weren't necessarily new, but I did have to consider in new ways because I was actually interacting with them instead of just dealing with them on the periphery of other issues.

