#hass111 #hass


## Abstract

The Mojave Desert is a lot of space with a large number of interested parties - from flora, fauna, residents, and even energy interests, a great deal of people want their own pound of flesh. Solar interests are of particular relevancy because land utilized for solar can't really be used for too much else - shockingly, it's quite difficult for plants to grow when all of the light is being used for power generation. There are a great deal of ethical dilemmas when considering an ecosystem the size of the Mojave, and attempting to resolve some of them is the goal of this paper. To what degree should preservation of biodiversity be prioritized as opposed to potential expansion of industry? Does solar even make the most sense when trying to generate energy, or is there a more efficient use of land? <sub>I don't have a good way to get out of this paragraph, but I need to move on from this paragraph</sub>

Luckily, this is a topic of significant research interest to a great deal of parties - for instance, a number of researchers from Boise State and UC Santa Barbara put together a software solution to attempt to analyze "Desert Renewable Energy" in the Mojave \[1]. A particularly interesting aspect of this study is that it was published in 2015 examining the theoretical impacts upon biodiversity in a fairly wide range of over fifteen thousand hectares, land which has since partially been developed for wide scale solar interests. While the researchers conclusion was that there was a manageable but somewhat concerning impact upon biodiversity, it's nonetheless fascinating to see the decisions made by industry vs what researchers said should happen.

One of the most significant impacts from large scale solar implementations is the degree of land covered, which proceeds to cause a significant amount of knock on effects as an environment used to receiving regular full sunlight is no longer getting such sun. \[6] This ends up in a net increase in the amount of CO<sub>2</sub> produced from land, even if solar doesn't produce a relevant quantity of carbon dioxide - this is due to changes caused in the soil, in the water, as well as flora and fauna. \[5]  One example of an impact on fauna is the amount of birds and bats found dead at both photovoltaic and thermal solar - over 250,000 birds and 10,000 bats were estimated killed at solar installations in the Mojave, with a noticeable amount more found upon closer inspection. \[9]

An equally relevant aspect of the utilization of land in the desert is the opinion of both lawmakers and local residents. Generally, local residents are in favor of solar developments because they aren't using the land generally being developed for solar for anything, because the most convenient areas for solar are non-developed, flat areas without anything significant other than power poles around.  \[7] Lawmakers are additionally in favor of attempting to develop land throughout California for general resource production, which was originally written into law as an attempt to develop land for agriculture, but large swathes of the Mojave desert aren't viable for agriculture in any way shape or form. This is largely due to a lack of water or general resource availability, but "spending" the land on solar isn't nearly as much of a strain on infrastructure, so California lawmakers are willing to subsidize land that was agriculturally allocated to be instead used for solar interests. \[6].

Overall, there are a great deal of conflicting interests, the most significant through line between them being the impact upon the local environment. Dead birds don't particularly care about who holds the land rights for the area, but both lawmakers and dead birds are forced to contend with the environmental impact of their decisions. This extends beyond just birds and lawmakers, but attempting to use the state of the local environment as the connecting tissue between researchers, the natural world, local residents, and not so local policymakers is the most eminently reasonable possible policy decision.
 


