#notes #eegn  #eegn281  

## Trying to be better at taking notes<sub><sub>The fucking feedback is still here.</sub></sub>

### Power

$$
p=\frac{dw}{dt}
$$
- This is the basic bitch equation for power - it's change in work (energy, in joules) over change in time (in seconds) which spits out watts (which, crazy, if you check your dimensions, watts are joules/second)
#### Current
$$
i=\frac{dq}{dt}
$$
#### Voltage
$$
v=\frac{dq}{dq}
$$
### Back onto notes now that we've got some equations out of the way
- Power is the product of voltage times current - aka, $p=vi$ also spits out the same power. The sign *should* tell us whether the element is gaining or losing power, but signs are also a lie made up by big negative to sell more flips, so don't believe it too much. 
- If $p>0$, power is being delivered to the circuit element, if $p<0$, power is being extracted from the circuit element.

- Alright, so $p=vi$ is really easy if they're just constants, but we love to throw $e^{-5000t}$ or some bullshit in there, so we might end up with some bullshit like $$
p=(10^{4}e^{-5000t})(20e^{-5000t})=2*10^{5}e^{-10,000t} \text{ watts}
$$
- And if you want that at a specific time, you just plug time in and off you go, if you want total energy, you're going to have to integrate over time, so your integral ends up looking liek
$$
w_{total}=\int_{0}^{\infty}2*10^5e^{-10,000t}dw=20(e^{-\infty}-(-e^{0}))
$$
### Big Long Power Balancing Example

| Power Supplied | Power Absorbed |
| -------------- | -------------- |
| -1200          | 100            |
| -1080          | 90             |
| -10            | 500            |
|                | 480            |
|                | 1100           |
| Total: -2290   | Total: 2270    |
- Well shit. Those don't match. 
- We're off by twenty, which really means we're off by ten, which there's an awfully suspicious looking -10 hiding in the power supplied row.
- So, the realsies table would end up looking like

| Power Supplied | Power Absorbed |
| -------------- | -------------- |
| -1200          | 100            |
| -1080          | 90             |
|                | 500            |
|                | 480            |
|                | 1100           |
|                | 10             |
| Total: -2280   | Total: 2280    |
- Wow! They're the same!
