#notes #eegn  #eegn281  

# Symbology
- Independent current and voltage sources look like circles, with arrows for current and +- for voltage. Shocking (ba dum hiss) stuff.
	- Dependent current and voltage sources are shaped like diamonds, with the same symbols, but instead of just saying "hey this has some voltage $v_{s}$" it'll have something awful like $\rho i_{c}$ is the voltage.
- Active vs Passive Elements in Circuits
	- Sources are active, they generate energy, life is good
	- Resistors, capacitors, inductors, all those fun little components are passive
### Example Type Beat
- If you take two voltage sources, both 10V, wired in parallel, hook up pos to pos and neg to neg, you would get 10V across them. Valid, sick, nasty, awesome, love it.
	- If they were to have different voltages though, nuh-uh, elements in parallel gotta have the same voltage.
- Two current sources in series, you stick em together, if they have the same current bob's your uncle.
	- If they don't have the same current, nuh-uh, elements in series gotta have the same current.

## Resistance Exists!
- Capacity of materials to impede the flow of current
- Resistors model this, because we treat everything else as fake and ideal.
- Ohm's Law exists, $V=iR$, and tbh you can get astoundingly far with just that.
- If current is flowing in the voltage drop direction, it's $V=iR$, if it's going opposite, slap a negative on it, call it good.
- Conductance is the opposite of resistance, is measured in siemens, and is literally just defined as $G= \frac{1}{R}$
	- A ten ohm resistor has 0.1 siemens of conductance, or professional literature likes to throw in mho (Yes, that is ohm backwards)
- There's a couple different ways you can calculate what's going on power-wise with resistors, notably being:
$$
p=i^{2}R, p = \frac{V^{2}}{R}
$$
- Which are both just defined from $V=iR$ and $p=Vi$
### Oh boy more examples
- If you have one amp flowing through eight ohms of resistance, you get a voltage of... eight volts. 🤯
- I don't care to write the rest of these out.
#### Hopefully a fun example
- 10V voltage source with a 2 ohm and a 3ohm resistor in parallel
	- Finding currents in both resistors and total current in the circuit
	- Voltage is samesies across them all, so 10=2i, so $i_{1}=5$, and 10=3i, so $i_{2}=\frac{10}{3}$
		- This means the silly little node above the 2ohms has $8 \frac{1}{3}$ amps coming out of it, so it's gotta have $8 \frac{1}{3}$ amps coming in, and that'll be our total.
		- 