#notes #meche #megn261

## Chapter 6 (I missed the first day of, yay for recap)
- Real Equations
	- Thermal efficiency  = $\eta_{th} =\frac{wnet}{qin=qh}$
	- $COP_{R}=\frac{Q_{C}=Q_{R}}{W_{net}}$
	- $COP_{HP}=\frac{Q_{H}}{W_{net}}$
- Ideal (Carnot)
	- Thermal efficiency for Carnot is $=\eta_{th}=1-\frac{T_{L}}{T_{H}}$
	- $COP_{R}=\frac{T_{L}}{T_{H}-T_{L}}$
	- $COP_{HP}=\frac{T_{H}}{T_{H}-T_{L}}$
- Any time you see "max" or "highest" you're dealing with the theoretical best, which is Carnot
- We irreversible and reversible
	- Reversible can be written as Carnot
	- Irreversible is actual, you could go buy a heat pump and it'd check out more
		- This means you have losses, you can't get it back
		- Thermo textbooks love to call this "thermal friction"
- We carry $\eta_{th }$ forward as we deal with engines and power plants, we lowkey do not give a shit about the rest.
---

### Heat Pump Problem
- $W_{comp}=68 \frac{kj}{kg}$, House is 18C or 291K, outside temp is -16C or 257K
- R-134a enters the condenser in the house @ 1000kPA and 50$\degree$C and it leaves at 1000kPA and is a saturated liquid
- So doing our states of the heat exchanger
	- $P_{1}=1000$kPA
	- $T_{2}=50\degree$

- We want the highest $COP_{HP}$, which means we want the Carnot equation 6 $$
\frac{291}{291-257}=8.6
$$
- At what rate is heat provided to the house from the condenser (kj(kg))
	- Those are just lookups. Do your lookups for $h$, and bob's your uncle. Apparently, 175 kj/kg is the final answer
- What is the actual COP of the heat system?
	- It's a heat pump. It says actual. Use equation 3, the real heat pump equation. $$
COP_{HP}=\frac{q_{H}}{W_{net }}=\frac{175}{68}=2.57
$$
- This is less than $COP_{HP}$ from the Carnot bit, so yeah, this checks out.
---

## Entropy Time (Chapter 7/8)
- Entropy is S, $\frac{kj}{K}$, s is $\frac{kj}{kgK}$
- Lookups are the exact god damn same.
- Entropy depends a good bit on scale
	- ME cares about the macro scale, physics care more about the micro scale, and have all kinds of actually interesting things (that we don't really care about)
	- We're engineers. We need numbers. Things need to make sense.
		- We gotta quantify a loss 
- When we have some $\eta_{th}$ value, that's great for knowing that things are kinda bad, but we don't know the specifics of the irreversibilities, which is what the entropy is for
- Now, if you're a Youtuber, you're going to say that entropy is always increasing in the universe, but a more boring but yet true topic is that it's also associated with a heat transfer @ some boundary T
	- You can also say entropy is "a measure of the disorder of the universe" which is awesome! Neat for physics kids! Does uh, not really help us as engineers.
- We got three big tricks! And that's it!
	- Conservation of Matter.
	- Conservation of Energy.
	- And the final shmuck, Entropy. <sub>Who doesn't fit and makes this less symmetrical</sub>
$$
\frac{ds}{dt}=\dot{m}\Delta s + \underbrace{ \frac{\dot{Q}}{T_{b}} }_{ \text{Boring engineer} }+\overbrace{ Sgen_{universe} }^{ \text{Youtube term} }
$$
- $\frac{ds}{dt}$ is going to be steady state, constant, which is neat
	- $\Delta s=(s_{2}-s_{1})$, which, that term is entropy associated with mass transfer (it's from lookups)
		- If your system is closed that term poofs
	- $T_{b}$ is your boundary temperature, if you're adiabatic, it poofs away.
	- The "Universe" is your control volume, which tends to be like, the turbine itself when you're dealing with a turbine.
		- $T_{b}$ is outside the universe
	- $Sg\dot{e}n>0$, but in an ideal or reversible system, $Sg\dot{e}n=0$.
		- It however, DEFINITELY VERY MUCH *CANNOT* be less than zero.
			- No dice. Go home. 
		- $S_{gen}$ of zero is isentropic.
- 