#notes #meche #megn261

## Housekeeping Things
- Chapter 4 and 5 readings are both half size, but the homework is combined


- Table A-2 water uses 4.18 regardless of whatever it is

(ideal gasses)
#### Constant Specific Heats
- Amount of heat transfer required to raise temperature of mass 1 degree C
- Ways to calculate U and H 
	- Once upon a time, we used air tables and you would look it up as a function of temperature
	- Nowadays we use EES to make a function call (it's 2025. get good)
		- You can also use like matlab, python, whatever the fuck else.
	- Can also use a function of temperature on a table
		- Since we're going by hand, using constant specific heats is the way to go
- Closed and open systems
	- If it's closed, $\to$ internal energy U
	- If it's open, $\to$ enthalpy H
	- If we're looking at constant specific heats, for closed, $\frac{dU}{dT}=c_{v}$ 
		- for open, $\frac{dH}{dT}= c_{p}$
	- $c_{v}$ is constant volume, $c_{p}$ is constant pressure 
	- $dU = c_{v}dT$
		- Change in internal energy = $0.787 \frac{kj}{kg*K}$ (for air) and ($T_{2}-T_{1}$(K)
	- $dH = c_{p}\Delta t$
		- Change in enthalpy = 1.005($T_{2}-T_{1}$)
- That works wonderfully for ideal gasses, now for

### Solids! (I hope they work)
- $c_{p}=c_{v}=c$ 
	- It's a solid. So it's a constant pressure, a constant volume, just some constant $c$ based on the metal
	- So then $dU = c\Delta t$
		- There's the one question on the homework about like an iron block. Put your temps in kelvin and deal with it like this.

### Liquids! (I don't have a good pun)
- $c_{v}=c_{p}=c$ for liquids as well

## Specific Heat Ratio
$$k = \frac{c_{p}}{c_{v}}$$
- We're going to eventually develop "isentropic relationships" which are raised to the power of $k$. That's a problem for like two weeks from now.

## Methodology or something
1. Fluid?
	- If you work a problem in the wrong fluid you are just, quite simply, fucked.
	- R-134a and water are done with lookups
	- Air we use constant specific heats and the ideal gas equation with
2. Closed or open?
	- Is there mass transfer? is $\dot{m}$ real? 
		- Piston cylinders and tanks are closed, everything else is open.
	1. Closed (kw)
		1. $\dot{Q}-\dot{W}=\dot{m}$ all goes to zero. Every time when you're closed. Every single time.
		2. $Q-W=m(\Delta u + \Delta ke + \Delta pe)$
			1. If you're specific, you drop to $q-w=\Delta u + \Delta ke + \Delta pe$
	2. Open
		1. $\dot{Q}-\dot{W}=\dot{m}(\Delta h + \Delta ke + \Delta pe)$
3. Conservation of Mass
$$\dot{m} = \rho AV$$
	- This is that one turbine problem.
4. Ideal gas equation
	-  $m = \frac{P\forall}{RT}$ 
$$\frac{P_{1}V_{1}}{\cancel{R}T_{1}}= \frac{P_{2}V_{2}}{\cancel{R}T_{2}}$$
----

- First thing you do on a water problem is you figure out phase! First thing you do!
	- When you figure out you have a mixture, you figure out quality
$$x= \frac{v-v_{f}}{v_{g}- v_{f}}$$
- Y'know, written somewhere already, but never hurts
- Once you have yourself $x$, you can solve for $h$ and $u$ 
- 
