#notes #meche #megn261

## Heat Exchanger Assumptions
- Constant Pressure
	- $Q_{in}$ or $Q_{??}$
- R-134a is to be cooled by water in a condenser. The R-134a enters the condenser with a mass flow rate of 4 kg/min @ 1MPa + 70$\degree$C + leaves at $35\degree$C . The cooling H2O enters @ 300kPA + 15$\degree$C and leaves at 25C. Neglect pressure drops (which means constant pressure) $$\frak\frac{dy}{dx}$$ 
- Find $m_{w}$ (kg/min)
- The hate transfer rate from the R-134a to the H2O (kJ/min)
----
##### Let's get a-crackin
1. **Open** or closed?
	1. Which means we're using $h$ 
2. What fluid? R-134a and H2O
3. Write your states

| State 1  | State 2  | State 3  | State 4  |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| H2O      | H2O      | R-134a   | R-134a   |
| 300 kPa  | 300 kPa  | 1000 kPa | 1000 kPa |
| 15C      | 25C      | 70C      | 35C      |
| $h_1$=?? | $h_2$=?? | $h_3$=?? | $h_4$=?  |

$$\sum\limits  dot{Q} -  \sum\limits \dot{w} =\sum\limits  \dot{m}(\Delta h + \Delta ke + \Delta pe)$$
$$\sum\limits E_{in}= \sum\limits E_{out}$$
$$\dot{m}_{1}=\dot{m}_{2}= \dot{m}_{w}$$
$$\dot{m}_{3}= \dot{m}_{4}= \dot{m}_{r}$$
$$\dot{m}_{w}h_{1}+ \dot{m}_{r}h_{3}= \dot{m}_{w}h_{2}+ m_{r}h_{4}$$
- Hey, in case we've gotten lost, we're looking for $\dot{m}_{w}$
$$m_{w}(h_{1}- h_{2})= m_{r}(h_{4}-h_{3})$$
$$m_{w}= m_{r}* \frac{(h_{4}- h_{3})}{(h_{1}-h_{2})}$$
- Oh hey we did it. Yippee.
- Now for that heat transfer rate
$$\dot{Q}_{w}- \cancel{\dot{w}} = \dot{m}(\Delta h + \cancel{\Delta ke} + \cancel{\Delta pe}) $$
$$\dot{Q}= \dot{m}\Delta h$$
$$\dot{Q} = \dot{m} (h_{2}- h_{1})$$
----
### Systems
- Tank is closed.
- Piston cylinder is closed.
	- $PdV$ for work
- $c_{v}$ is closed
	- $\Delta v = c_{v}\Delta t$
- Compressor is open.
- Pump is open.
- Steam turbine is open.
	- Or, y'know, any other turbine
- Heat exchanger
	- Bit of a shocker if you have any heat exchange anywhere but a heat exchanger
	- So we're *probably* solving for work
	- $c_{p}\Delta t = \Delta h$
$$\dot{m} = eAV$$
$$\dot{m} = \frac{AV}{v}$$
$$\dot{m} = \frac{\text{(Area)(Velocity)}}{v}$$
$$m = \frac{P\forall}{Rt}$$