#notes #meche  #ceen241

## some quick housekeeping stuff
- prefers either Professor Guerra (Geh-ra) or Dr. Guerra


## What do we already know about statics?
#### Group Members
- Alec Malcangio, He/Him
- Bliss O'Shea, She/Her

#### What we know
- Bliss doesn't like it
- Everything go to zero
	- Things don't move!
- Lots of shenanigans with moments
	- Which is force times distance!
- Mohr's Circle is a thing that exists and is "not fun" according to higher MechE majors
- Much drawing.
- You do a lot of multiplying stuff together
- Bridge type shit?
##### Stuff other people said
- High homework load 

### More General Housekeeping Stuff
- We went on about how learning and such works for, like, a *while*
- "There's no such thing as a bad question"
	- this is not true.
#### More Specific (?) Housekeeping Stuff
- "Apply, Arrange, Solve"
- We're - generally - going to assume that lots of things are Rigid Bodies unless otherwise mentioned
- There's a neat document on Canvas going over learning objectives for every day. I don't intend to really use it, but neat that it exists
- Homework late policy is 2% per hour late
	- Using Canvas / Gradescope timestamp for that
- Handwritten homework is probably going to be annoying at best.
- Office Hours are M/W/F 8:30 to 9:30 as well as by appointment
	- I still haven't gone to office hours ever, but, y'know, good to know
- Historical Student Performance
	- Homeworks and quizzes both average above 90, exams are typically somewhere in the 70 range
### Technically actually statics talk
- We use two systems of units, we don't convert between the two, but we do use two different systems
- Some problems are going to be SI, some problems are going to be in US Customary

| SI                                                     | US Customary                                        |
| ------------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------- |
| Meter (m)                                              | Foot (ft)                                           |
| Second (s)                                             | Second (s) <sub>they're the same! wow</sub>         |
| Kilogram (kg)                                          | Slug ($\frac{\text{lb}\cdot\text{s}^2}{\text{ft}}$) |
| Newton (N) $\frac{\text{kg}\cdot\text{m}}{\text{s}^2}$ | Pound (lb)                                          |
## come back next time for
- Vector operation shenanigans
- 
  