#notes #meche  #ceen241

## Tippy tippy outriggers
- At the limit for tipping, the faraway outrigger is going to have a whopping force of... zero!
- We, actually, only care about sum of moments. You can solve for the force if you feel like it, but that moment is going to be zero.

### Other Notes
- Neil DeGrasse Tyson jumpscare?

### One Unknown Force Supports
- Cables are just one force in the direction of the support
- Smooth surface and rollers are just a single force perpendicular to the surface
### Other Supports
- Ball and sockets allow all rotation but do have $F_{x},F_{y},F_{z}$
- Single smooth pin
	- Can't rotate in one direction, allows rotation in the other two directions and prevents movement in all of them
- Single Thrust Bearing & Single Journal Bearing
	- Thrust bearings are designed to handle a thrust onto the shaft
	- Journal bearings, on the other hand, are not designed for that, and as such you discount that force
	- Also, they're bearings, they don't prevent rotation along the axis
- Shockingly, bearings with a square shaft in a square hole can't rotate. 
	- That's.... not a bearing. Go fish.
- Single Hinge
	- Made to rotate along the axis of its shaft, no other movement allowed
- Fixed Support
	- Allows fuck all. It's fixed. It doesn't move.
- Moment reactions have a habit of poofing away
	- If you count up your unknowns and have more than six (our number of equations), your moments will end up poofing.
- Properly aligned bearings are important, fully rigid members are more important.
- You can do moment about axes in 3D! Ain't that neat.
- 