#notes #cs358 #compsci

## Housekeeping
- Me personally, I vibe with Dr. DJ as a name. Kinda fucks.
## Alright fuck it, we doin content
### What in the hell is discrete math?
- "Study of math.... that is discrete rather than continuous" (crazy, that doesn't help)
	- Discrete objects like graphs, integers, yadaya
- Why do we bother?
	- It's real! Real life deals with discrete shit! 
	- Lots of this class is also logical proofs and induction and such, and, shockingly, logic is helpful
	- It's also a requirement for CS. I'm here because it's a prereq for data structures, tbh.
- "Have you ever felt powerless when trying to argue with others?"
	- One, a fire way to lead in to why this class is useful.
	- Two, learning how to argue logically and reasonably is the point of this class.
- We have a "required" textbook in Discrete Mathematics and Its Applications by Rosen, but DJ is going to do his best to keep it self contained because that shit's expensive.
##### Topics
- We have a long list of topics, and not all topics are created equal.
- We're going to go over a definition, how it works, what the rules are, what the properties are, all that kinda good stuff.
	- Logic
		- We're, uh, gonna be there a while. It's lowkey really important.
		- We're going to learn two kinds of logic:
			- Propositional logic
				- What a proposition is, how we check if a statement is one, how to check if it's true or false
			- Predicate logic
				- Predicates are more like properties, it's a bit weird
	- Proofs
		- We're going to get taught four basic methods of doing proofs
			- Direct proof
			- Proof by proposition
			- Proof by contradiction
			- Proof by {physics?}
			- Induction is kind of a proof method, and you can't really use it for everything, but sometimes it works out really well.
				- We'll go over the details when we get there. Dw about it.
	- Sets
		- Sets are an incredibly important for comp sci, fundamentally.
		- Mathematically, a set can basically be whatever the fuck you want. You can put a dog, a human, and a table in a set and call that a day.
	- Recursion
		- A college play about a college play...
		- Defining something with itself, and ends up producing very concise and reasonable definitions when it works.
	- Counting
		- All kinds of principles of counting, how to use them, when to use them, all kinds of goodies.
		- The important kicker here is that we learn permutations and combinations, which is really the good stuff.
	- Probability
		- Aw dangit!
		- Aw dangit!
		- Aw dangit!
		- Aw dangit!
		- Aw dangit!
		- Aw dangit!
		- I can't stop winning!
		- Aw dangit!
		- I love 1/8 chances. We're doing probability stuff.
			- Conditional probability is going to come up, ie, if this happens, odds of this later thing happening. (example given was if someone is sneezing, odds of a cold)
		- Expected values of random variables, all kinds of other such fun stuff.
	- Relations & Functions
		- There are all kinds of relations that we can model and do operations with, and that's what this whole unit is going to be about.
		- We're going to learn all kinds of properties about relations
		- As well as different types of relations!
		- And the kicker is that functions are a kind of relation, and we're going to cover that at the end.
			- As well as what kinds of operations we can do on functions
	- Graphs
		- Look at this graphhhh {pained nickelback noises}
		- Graphs are really nice for any kind of networks, be they social, be they digital networks, be they biological - you can find all kinds of paths and such graph logic.
		- Back half of graphs are trees, which is a whole other paradigm and you gotta lock the fuck in over there. What's the depth of a tree? What are parents? Why did my dad take the milk and run?
- Wow, I totally didn't need to write all that out, but putting an "any questions" at the end of all that yapping is *wild.*
## Flipped classroom, killing myse-
- Someone else will be teaching it next semester, so if you hate flipped classroom, you can just wait a semester.
- There are 47 lecture videos and they actually only total 13 hours, which is roughly equivalent to one season of Big Bang Theory or Friends
	- Or Mr Beast's 42 top videos.
		- Average college student tiktok time is 57 minutes/day, so it'd take roughly two weeks if you used this class's lecture videos as tiktok time.
- Lowkey tuned out, but, canvas exists. It's canvas. Yippee doo.
- Gradescope exists. You use it like gradescope. Yippee dee.
- Two bonus points for the top five contributors on Ed is crazy. That shit's gonna be cutthroat. 
- HiTA is chatgpt.
## Grading stuff
- There will be ten homeworks, lowest one is dropped.
- Literally going to smooch whoever made it so they must be typed AND provided LaTeX templates?
- There's a free one day grace period, so the real due date is a day later. I probably shouldn't internalize that.
- Quizzes are 5% of the grade, they're to make sure you watch the videos before class.
	- brother how do we have people asking some of these questions at this point.
- TAKE HOME MIDTERMS
	- ohly fuck it's "75 minutes may not be enough" kind of fucked up. Awesome. Love that.
- Final exam is not take home, get fucked, you gotta come in and do it in the same room. Eat shit.
	- We get a cheat sheet for the final, and it can be typed, so that should be fun.
- Collaboration is legal on the homework as long as you say "yeah I collaborated with this guy" (same policy as normal for the CS classes)

### What should you know from algebra? (not calc, even though calc 2 is a prereq)
- How to "unfoil" shit, ie, $a^{2}+2ab+b^{2}=(a+b)^{2}$
- Let $a,b,c$ be numbers. If $a<b,$ then $a+c <b+c$
	- Basic logic proof. Checks out.
- Let $a,b,c,d$ be numbers. If $a<b$ and $c<d$, then $a+c < b+d$,
	- This applies out to infinity with as many as you'd like.
- If $a<b$ and $c>0$, then $ac<bc$. 
- Let $a,b,c,d,e\dots$ be mathematical expressions. To show $a=b$, you can show $a=c=d=e=\dots=b$. Similarly, to show $a \leq b,$ you can show $a=c\leq d\leq e=\dots=b$ 
	- Basically, you can string these operators together and it can eventually work out.
- $a\leq b$, how many integers are in the range from $[a,b]$
	- I biffed my mental math and it's $b-a+1$, not $+2$, which is what I said. Whoopsie daisy.