#notes #cs358 #compsci

## Alright, it's time to get *logical*
- I do intend to repeat this joke. I forgot to watch the videos.
- A proposition is a statement that is either true or false - not a question nor command.
	- Can you have a statement that is neither true nor false?
		- The answer is yes, and the answer is a paradox. 
		- Case in point "This statement is false."
			- If that's true, then it's false. Known as the Liar's Paradox.
	- The barber shaves everyone's head who do not shave themselves, and only those people.
- In this class, we use CAPITAL LETTERS to represent propositions, which should give you plenty of variable options.
- Connectives:
	- Negation: ¬ (Alt+L)
	- And: ∧
	- Or: ∨
	- If, implies, etc: $\to$
	- If and only if: $\leftrightarrow$
	- I gotta figure out a better way to type my logic symbols.
- Gonna be so fr, I tuned so far out and went on a math software install quest.
- The negation of a given proposition is also a proposition, and always has the opposite value.
	- Ie, "the river is not shallow or not polluted"
		- This gets fully flipped into "The river is deep and polluted."
	- A: The river is shallow.
	- B: The river is polluted.
		- Which then gives us A∨B

| A   | B   | A∨B | ¬A∨¬B             | ¬A∧¬B |
| --- | --- | --- | ----------------- | ----- |
| T   | T   | T   | F                 | F     |
| T   | F   | T   | T<sub>uh oh</sub> | F     |
| F   | T   | T   |                   | F     |
| F   | F   | F   |                   | T     |

Gotta make a horrifying table


| A   | B   | A$\to$B | ¬B$\to$A | B$\to$A | A∨¬B | A$\to$¬B | A∧¬B |
| --- | --- | ------- | -------- | ------- | ---- | -------- | ---- |
| T   | T   | T       | T        | T       | T    | F        | F    |
| T   | F   | F       | T        | T       | T    | T        | T    |
| F   | T   | T       | T        | F       | F    | T        | F    |
| F   | F   | T       | F        | T       | T    | T        | F    |
- A proposition is a tautology if it is always true.
	- This is only really relevant with compound propositions, but vibes that count
- How small can we get a tautology?
	- A∨¬A
	- A$\to$A is pretty damn small.
- A contradiction is the opposite of a tautology, and it's always false.
	- A∧¬A is a pretty damn small contradiction
	- A XOR A is 
	- 