#notes #cs358 #compsci


- If you are kind to people, they will be your friends. But you weren't kind to people. Therefore, they are not your friends.
	- Could be written as (K→F)∧¬K →¬F
		- If Kind is false and Friends are true, we get True and True to False
### Inference Rules
- First one
	- $P$
	  $P\to Q$
	  $\therefore$ Q
- Second
	  $P\to Q$
	  $\neg Q$
	  $\therefore P$
  - Third
	    P
		Q
		$\therefore P \land Q$
- A
	  $P \land Q$
	  $\therefore P$
- Bop
	  P
	  $\therefore P \lor Q$
- Inference rules only go one direction!
- So our example case is 
	- $((A\lor \neg B)\rightarrow C) \land(C\rightarrow D)\land A\rightarrow D$ is valid
		1. $A\lor \neg B$ is $A$
			1. $( A\rightarrow C) \land(C\to D)\land A\to D$
		2. If $A\to C$ and $C\to D$, then $A\to D$
		3. $A\to D \land A\to D$, then $A\to D$
		4. $D$? I think?
	- We have three premises
		1. ($A \lor \neg B\to C$)
		2. $C\to D$
		3. $A$
1. If the premises are all true, then the conclusion, D, must be true
	1. So we need D
		1. So C must be true
			1. And then we need $A\lor \neg B$ to be true
			2. And from there we have A as a premise
- Boop
1. $(A \lor \neg B) \to C$
2. $C\to D$
3. A
4. $A \lor \neg B$ (3)
5. C (1, 4)
6. D (2, 5)
---
- If you have some long ass argument like $p_{1}\land p_{2}\land p_{3}\land\dots\to(R\to S)$, you can change that last bit to be $p_{n}\land R\to S$
	- That's the deduction method, and handles that quite neatly with a little bow on top.
- Generally, deduction is nicer because you can get $(\neg R\lor S)$ out, which gets you an extra premise to play with

---

$A\to(B\to C)\to D$
- That whole thing is a whopping one premise ($A\to(B\to C)$)
---

$\neg(\neg A \land B) \land (\neg B \to C)\to(A\lor C)$
1. $\neg(\neg A \land B)$
2. $\neg B\to C$
3. A
4. C
5. $(A\lor \neg B)$ (1)
6. $A\to C$ (5, 2)
7. $C$ 
- That should be a proof? I think?
---
$\neg(\neg A\land B)\land(\neg B\to C)\to(\neg A\to C)$
- 